Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Israel Strikes U.N. Base in Lebanon; Medical Facilities in Gaza Running out of Fuel; Israeli Strike Kills 28 at Gaza Shelter; Iran Awaits for Israeli Response; At Least 17 People Killed in Florida after Milton; Survivors Assess Damage Caused by Milton; Floodwater Fears in Florida; Obama Begins Campaign Blitz for Harris; Presidential Election 25 Days Away; Many Polls Say Harris and Trump Neck-and-Neck; Japanese Atomic Bomb Survivors Wins Nobel Peace Prize; Tesla Shares Down after Robotaxi Reveal; North Korea Lashes Out at Seoul; Aescape Robot Massage Therapists; Nintendo Opens First Museum in Japan. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired October 11, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR:  Plus, longtime Democratic Congressman Jim Clyburn of South Carolina. That's Sunday morning at 9:00 Eastern and again at noon, 
 
 only here on CNN.
 
If you ever miss an episode of The Lead, you can listen to the show whence you get your podcasts. The news continues on CNN. Alex Marquardt is in The 
 
 Situation Room. I'll see you Monday.
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Happening now, Donald Trump stokes anti
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  It's 1:00 a.m. in Beirut, 7:00 a.m. in Tokyo, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. And 
 
 wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome to "First Move." And here's today's need to know. Two U.N. peacekeepers injured as Israel admits striking their facility in 
 
 Lebanon. Floodwater fears. Rescue efforts continue in Florida, nearly 48 hours after Hurricane Milton's landfall. Peaceful persistence. The Nobel 
 
 Peace Prize is won by a group of Japanese atomic bomb survivors trying to rid the world of nuclear weapons. And Mario magic. Gaming giant Nintendo 
 
 opening its first museum in Japan. We'll take you there.
 
But first, we do begin in the Middle East and Israel acknowledging that it struck a U.N. peacekeeping base in Southern Lebanon. A U.N. spokesperson 
 
 says one peacekeeper was badly hurt in Friday's explosion. It's actually the second time the headquarters near the Israeli border have been hit this 
 
 week. Israel's military says it's been trying to attack Hezbollah forces operating, quote, "near the peacekeepers' positions."
 
Meanwhile, U.N. officials are also warning about deteriorating conditions in Gaza. They say no food has entered northern Gaza for 10 days. One 
 
 million people are at risk of starvation, according to estimates by the World Food Programme.
 
With more on this, Nic Robertson is in Tel Aviv. For us, Nic, good to have you with us. What are the Israelis saying about the fact that no food has 
 
 entered in 10 days? Our attention's clearly been focused on Lebanon, but the suffering in Gaza continues.
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Well, the IDF says that they do on the body that overseas getting humanitarian aid into Gaza, 
 
 COGAT say that they are making the humanitarian aid available. But the military situation in Northern Gaza has changed recently. It has changed 
 
 because the IDF has issued evacuation orders there for the majority of people, about 400,000 people.
 
That they have re begun some big military offensives in a number of the towns in the north of Gaza. And it's creating a de facto environment where 
 
 aid cannot get in. I mean, aid agencies say, go back to August, they were able to get 700 trucks of humanitarian aid in over that month. In 
 
 September, it dropped off to 400 trucks of aid getting in. Now, it's zero since the beginning of since the beginning of October.
 
So, it's effectively putting that additional pressure on the population to conform with these evacuation orders to get out of the way of the fighting 
 
 that the IDF is putting on them, and it raises concern with U.N. agencies about what Israel's long-term strategy for Northern Gaza is.
 
Meanwhile, in the center of Gaza, two bakeries there have been forced to close down because they cannot get the fuel delivered by the U.N. They 
 
 cannot get the flour delivered by the U.N. Tens if not hundreds of thousands of people rely on these U.N. helped bakeries in Gaza at the 
 
 moment. And the military offensives there continue.
 
One school that was being used as a temporary shelter was hit by the IDF. In the hospital, there is brutal images show you the aftermath of that 
 
 strike.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  Across a hospital floor, a Garan hellscape, Leyan Hamadin (ph), a 13-year-old girl, has third degree burns, is in shock.
 
She tells the medic her name, ask for his, then reaches out to hug him, asking, will I die? You won't die, you'll be fine, he reassures her. What 
 
 happened, she asks. There is nothing wrong with you, he says. What happened, she asks again. He tells her, there's nothing wrong with your 
 
 body, except a few wounds, and then you'll heal. Leyan (ph)is one of the lucky ones.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
A survivor from an Israeli strike Thursday on a school turned shelter to thousands, which, according to Gazan health officials, killed at least 28 
 
 people. This day, those same officials announcing more than 42,000 Palestinians killed since October 7th last year. The IDF said they were 
 
 targeting a terrorist command and control center at the school compound.
 
Displaced, like the school they were sheltering in, reduced, mentally broken. This man with an angry message for Hamas. We don't want them and we 
 
 don't want their solutions. They sold us out long ago. Let their leaders come and watch us as we search for bodies with our bare hands.
 
The unlucky this day, disgorged from overstuffed ambulances. This death cycle, repeated beyond anyone's wildest nightmare, day by day, sometimes 
 
 hour by hour.
 
My husband's name is Ahmed Abdel Hamouda (ph). Show me where he is. They killed him. He was my support. The support of his disabled daughters. God 
 
 is great. God is great. God is great. Her final goodbye here at the hospital.
 
A starting point for a pain and suffering already dreaded and endured for more than a year.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over):  Now, the mother of the young girl who we featured at the beginning of that report tells us her daughter has been in hospital, 
 
 have been rather in surgery today and the prognosis that the doctors had yesterday when she was brought into the hospital still seems to be holding 
 
 out that she is going to make a recovery.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Well, that's some good news, Nic. Got sort of goosebumps watching that report there. In the meantime, we're still waiting, and it is 
 
 now many days, for Israel to make a choice to decide how they're going to respond to Iran and the attacks that we saw there. Sources telling CNN, I 
 
 believe, earlier that Iran itself is extremely nervous and is engaging in a flurry of diplomatic relations in order to try and reduce the scale of this 
 
 response. What more do we know about that and whether or not the diplomacy's working?
 
ROBERTSON:  It's really not clear if the diplomacy is working. One Israeli official did tell CNN that they thought that the gaps between the United 
 
 States and Israel over what to strike in Iran are narrowing. We don't have any evidence to support that. We don't know what is on and off the table. 
 
 We know the United States doesn't want Israel to strike the nuclear power facilities and the nuclear enrichment sites and doesn't want them to strike 
 
 Iran's oil refineries either.
 
But what does that leave on the table? Proportionality, military sites, the Iranians struck military sites here. So, will Israel limit itself to that? 
 
 It doesn't seem as if they will. They want deterrence. So, they want a big strike. So, where do we stand on that? You know, I think the population 
 
 here is well expecting a response by Israel and would be expecting potentially another response back from Iran.
 
But the pressure that Iran is trying to exert in the region implying that if their oil facilities are targeted, then they will target the facilities, 
 
 oil facilities of Saudi Arabia, the UAE, other oil producers in the region, all of this to try to get those countries to put more pressure on the 
 
 United States going into an election cycle, doesn't want to see a big hit in the -- it doesn't want to see an inflamement in the region and 
 
 certainly, doesn't want to see a hit on gas prices so close to the election. Pressure on the United States to try to get them again to 
 
 pressure Israel.
 
It is a loop. The loop continues, the conversations continue. But at some point, Israel is going to act. We, at the moment, just don't quite know 
 
 when that'll be.
 
CHATTERLEY:  No. And you're pointing about the proximity to the presidential election and the geopolitical, including all potential price 
 
 rises as well, critical at this moment. Nic, always great to have you. Thank you. Nic Robertson there.
 
Now, in the southeast United States, destruction from back-to-back hurricanes is causing major concerns. At least 17 people in Florida have 
 
 died after Hurricane Milton made landfall Wednesday night. And authorities are warning the death toll is expected to rise further.
 
About 1,000 people have been rescued so far, but in one area near Tampa, the sheriff says residents trapped by high floodwaters are still being 
 
 evacuated. And to make matters worse, more than 2 million customers are still without power. The recovery will be difficult for many in Florida. 
 
 Brian Todd spoke to survivors who say they'll have to start their lives all over again.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  As rescue efforts continue across Florida. Survivors still reeling from the destruction left by 
 
 powerful Hurricane Milton. In hard hit St. Lucie County, Shane Ostrander, his wife Nicole, and their dog had to scramble into a closet when a tornado 
 
 hit them near Fort Pierce on Wednesday. He describes when the twister slammed into their house.
 
SHANE OSTRANDER, LOST HOST IN TORNADO:  Heard two bombs. Boom, boom. Ears ringing. Insulation everywhere. It felt to me about like 10 seconds. It was 
 
 probably longer.
 
TODD (voice-over):  Shane says when he opened his closet door, he realized he had lost everything.
 
OSTRANDER:  I walked the dog this morning and that's when it hits me, like when I see the neighbors with terrible damage. This whole neighborhood has 
 
 been devastated and I haven't even left this street yet.
 
TODD (voice-over):  Robin Longtin lives in the Spanish Lakes Country Club Village neighborhood where at least six people died. She hunkered down and 
 
 held on as a tornado tore off the roof of her mobile home. Robin was able to save her cats and two parakeets, but is still coming to grips with the 
 
 loss of her home.
 
ROBIN LONGTIN, LOST HOME IN TORNADO:  Devastating, scary. Definitely life- changing.
 
TODD (voice-over):  Others in the same senior community could not escape. 66-year-old Alejandro Alonso's grandson tells CNN that Alejandro and his 
 
 girlfriend were killed. The grandson describes Alejandro as an amazing grandfather and a motorcycle lover.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It was literally a tornado was in my house.
 
TODD (voice-over):  For those who survived, it's still surreal. This woman hid in her bathroom as a tornado tore off her roof.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  It was very life-threatening. I felt like I was about to die.
 
TODD (voice-over):  Even the county sheriff's building was not spared.
 
SHERIFF KEITH PEARSON, ST. LUCIE COUNTY, FLORIDA:  As you can see here, it destroyed this building, crumpled the red iron metal, destroyed lots of our 
 
 vehicles.
 
TODD (voice-over):  St. Lucie County Sheriff Keith Pearson told us the focus now is on rescue.
 
PEARSON:  We're not going to stop until we're able to, you know, rescue or recover as many people as we can.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Where's everybody at?
 
TODD (voice-over):  East of Tampa, rescuers wade through knee high waters to evacuate people inside homes in Dover, guiding them with a rope, one by 
 
 one, to safety.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  I got you.
 
TODD (voice-over):  A 91-year-old woman carried out of floodwaters in Lithia.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Got it. We're good.
 
TODD (voice-over):  This 77-year-old rode out the hurricane in his mobile home in St. Petersburg.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  For the few years that I got left, I'd like to stay here.
 
TODD (voice-over):  And others, slowly picking up the pieces.
 
RALPH GENITO, HOME FLOODED IN HURRICANE:  I mean, I know it's some terrible things, but I got to start all over again, you know. I just -- everything I 
 
 had there is no good.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, it's less than a month until the U.S. presidential election, and Democrats are utilizing some of their biggest names. 
 
 Thursday, Former President Barack Obama kicked off a 27-day campaign sprint for Kamala Harris in Pennsylvania. He gave blistering criticism of her 
 
 opponent, Former President Donald Trump, and urged black men not to sit out from this election.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BARACK OBAMA, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT:  I've noticed this especially with some men who seem to think Trump's behavior, the bullying, and the putting 
 
 people down is a sign of strength. And I am here to tell you, that is not what real strength is. It never has been.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Meanwhile, a few hours ago at a rally in Colorado, Trump announced he would create a federal gang member removal program if re-
 
 elected. Trump in the past has promoted false and sensationalized claims about Venezuelan gang members taking over parts of Colorado.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT AND REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Kamala has imported an army of illegal alien gang members and migrant 
 
 criminals from the dungeons of the third world. They come from the dungeons, think of that, the dungeons of the third world, from prisons and 
 
 jails, insane asylums, and mental institutions. And she has had them resettled beautifully into your community to prey upon innocent American 
 
 citizens.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  And joining us now, Senior Political Analyst Ron Brownstein. Ron, good to have you with us. Let's start with former President Barack 
 
 Obama, because he was raising the alarm in quite an aggressive manner among the lack of enthusiasm, I think, among black American men in particular.
 
Do you think this campaign has done enough, the Harris campaign I'm talking about, to specifically target black American men, Latino men, let's use 
 
 that subset as a group as well, or do you think this is the Democrats panicking?
 
RON BROWNSTEIN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST:  Kind of neither. I mean, I think that they have actually done a lot, but they are facing a big 
 
 headwind, which is that a large share of those men in both those communities feel that they were better off under Donald Trump, you know, 
 
 and there is a natural inclination when you feel that the party in power has not delivered economically to bend toward the party out of power.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
And they are looking at potentially ominous erosion among both black and Latino men. And so, the question is, can they move them back on other 
 
 issues? And I think that's what the former president is trying to do because I don't -- you know, for that share, whatever it is, maybe 25, 35, 
 
 30 percent of black men, 45 percent of Latino or more men believe they were better off under Trump. I don't know you're going to change that between 
 
 now and Election Day. The question is, can you raise other concerns? And that's what you see Obama trying to do.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and to highlight some of the other concerns, we know them well, the economy, the border, abortion, all these hot button topics. If 
 
 you look at the latest polling from The Wall Street Journal, we've got the two candidates literally neck-and-neck in six out of seven of the critical 
 
 swing states.
 
I mean, this is, what, a quarter of a century since we saw it this tight before a presidential election. Ron, what do you make of this? Because even 
 
 if you break it down, again, Trump is the winner when you talk about the economy. He's the winner when you talk about approach to the border, but 
 
 they can't choose between the candidates.
 
BROWNSTEIN:  Well, yes, I mean, I was talking to someone about that today. I think you do have to go back to the 2000 election between the Gore and 
 
 Bush, which, by the way, is what gave us our red and blue maps. That was the first one. Those were broken out for.
 
To find this many states that were this close to Election Day, and it's largely because we are seeing offsetting movements, right? I mean, we are 
 
 seeing improvements, continued improvements, what we've seen really for the last 30 years, continued improvements for Democrats among college educated 
 
 white voters, suburban voters, very strong performance for Republicans, for Trump among a non-college white voters, the blue collar whites who used to 
 
 be the foundation of the Democratic coalition from the '30s to the '60s, FDR to LBJ.
 
And then these inroads among black and Latino men and to some extent, among Latino women as well for Trump. And, you know -- and when you add them up, 
 
 they kind of offset and leave you in a situation where particularly the three big rust belt swing states, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin, 
 
 they've been leaning toward her. The first two might be slightly still leaning toward her, but there's no question that Trump is making up ground 
 
 with his kind of cultural offensive on Harris, soft on crime, soft on the border, too committed to transgender rights. And then, the Sun Belt 
 
 battlegrounds all also staying very close.
 
If those Wall Street Journal polls were correct, they were done by a bipartisan team, includes Trump's pollster and Harris' pollster, which is 
 
 kind of unusual, if they all were accurate, Harris would win. But no one on either side feels very confident right now. Although, I do think Democrats 
 
 are worried that Trump is driving more of the narrative and Harris has to figure out a way to respond, take it back another notch in this final 
 
 stretch.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I was going to ask that, because I know you've been closely watching all of the -- and they're more frequent than they've been 
 
 throughout this entire campaign now, interviews with Kamala Harris about whether he's doing a better job of attacking her and what the last four 
 
 years have been and potentially, what the future will look like versus her ability to tackle him.
 
I think one of the big takeaways from the VP debate for me was the sort of politics of joy. Fine. You want to put smiles out there and seem like 
 
 you're an optimist, but if one's attacking the other better and it's resonating, you've got a problem.
 
BROWNSTEIN:  Absolutely. I mean, look, you know, Harris has done a lot of things really well. She has basically closed the gap with Trump and passed 
 
 him on caring about people like you, even on the candidate of change in that New York Times -- last New York Times/Siena poll.
 
And I think what you saw in those -- that wave of interviews, the podcast you did, Howard Stern, 60 Minutes, and especially The View, her overriding 
 
 goal was to kind of demonstrate relatability. I have lived your life. So, I get your life. So, I know what it takes to make your life easier and more 
 
 secure, particularly aimed at women. And she did that quite well. I thought, particularly, as I said, on The View.
 
What she didn't do was articulate a consistent case against Donald Trump. I mean, she talked about abortion, certainly, and the threat to rights that 
 
 he presented when she was particularly on that podcast aimed at younger women, but if you think back to the immediate aftermath of the debate, what 
 
 hurt Trump so much was that the debate reminded people of all the things they didn't like about him when he was president.
 
And Harris really has not spent a lot of time talking about or reminding people about that or even about his most extreme proposals in that exchange 
 
 last night at Univision. She did not -- even when a question by a woman who was talking about her mother who was undocumented, she did not say Donald 
 
 Trump wants to take women like your mother who had passed, round them up with the National Guard, put them in internment camps, and put them on 
 
 planes. She didn't say that. She didn't talk about that.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
So, I would point out just one last number for you, Julia. In that poll today, that Wall Street Journal poll, I thought the real canary in the coal 
 
 mine that was a little ominous for Democrats was Trump's retrospective job approval keeps rising in all of those states. And that means voters are 
 
 primarily looking at him through the lens of remembering that life was less expensive then and not everything else that goes along with electing Donald 
 
 Trump. They kept his approval rating from ever hitting 50 when people are actually living through that economy.
 
And I think there are more and more Democrats who feel that has to come back front and center in a way that's kind of dissipated since the debate 
 
 itself.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and true or false, when Kamala was asked about that on The View and what she would change about the past four years, she said she 
 
 wouldn't change anything. So, I mean, that's a humdinger as ever I saw one.
 
BROWNSTEIN:  Not a great answer.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, Ron, good to chat to you. I've over talked. I'm being told off. I've got to say goodbye. Thank you.
 
All right. Turning now to a historic moment for Japan, the Norwegian Nobel Committee on Friday awarding this year's Nobel Peace Prize to a group of 
 
 Japanese atomic bomb survivors working to rid the world of nuclear weapons.
 
The group hailed for quote, "Demonstrating through witness testimony that nuclear weapons must never be used again." Hanako Montgomery has more from 
 
 Tokyo.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HANAKO MONTGOMERY, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  This is a very joyous moment for Japan and for Nihon Hidankyo. After years of advocating for nuclear 
 
 disarmament, the group was finally recognized for its work. You can actually see some of the organization members crying tears of joy, just 
 
 unable to believe that they've won such a prestigious award.
 
Now, a bit about this organization. It is a grassroots organization that's comprised of atomic bomb survivors, also known as Hibakusha in Japanese. 
 
 Their main purpose is to eliminate nuclear weapons around the globe, and their win actually comes at a very important time, not just for Japan, but 
 
 also for the entire world.
 
After decades of nuclear anxiety during the Cold War, nuclear weapons are once again causing a lot of unease, especially amid the wars in Ukraine and 
 
 in the Middle East. Russian President Vladimir Putin has repeatedly warned the west that it could use nuclear weapons if the United States and its 
 
 allies get too involved in the war in Ukraine.
 
Meanwhile, Israel, which is widely believed to have its own nuclear weapons, is trading fire with Iran, another country that is believed to 
 
 have the capabilities of developing its own nuclear weapons. Even Japan's neighbors, like North Korea, are rapidly developing their nuclear arsenal.
 
So, the work of Nihon Hidankyo and organizations like it are extremely relevant, especially as they speak from experience. Japan is the only 
 
 country to have ever been bombed with atomic bombs during wartime, and it's believed more than 200,000 people were killed. They can say firsthand how 
 
 devastating nuclear weapons actually are. How these atomic bombs decimated entire neighborhoods, towns, people's homes, and their families.
 
And even though many of these hibakusha are getting old and are dying, they hope that their message of nuclear disarmament doesn't die with them.
 
Hanako Montgomery, CNN, Tokyo.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Hanako there. Now, straight ahead. Robotaxi reveal. Tesla shares tumble after its cyber cab reveal the product's 
 
 delight, but details a little light.
 
And speaking of tech disruptors, we'll introduce you to the bot that aims to hit the spot. The A.I. robot masseuse. That's all coming up. Stay with 
 
 us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  And welcome back to "First Move." A festive Friday on Wall Street, topping today's Money Move. The Dow and the S&amp;P finishing the week 
 
 at fresh records. The S&amp;P wrapping up its fifth straight week in the green and a strong start to U.S. earning season to help pushing stocks higher 
 
 financial giants J.P. Morgan, Wells Fargo, and BlackRock delivering solid results. We also received more encouraging U.S. inflation news too with 
 
 prices at the factory gate coming in flat or unchanged last month.
 
A troubling announcement, however, after the closing bow, Boeing announcing that it will cut 10 percent of its workforce as its machinist strike drags 
 
 on. That amounts to around 17,000 jobs.
 
Now, in Asia, global investors will be paying close attention to a news conference from China's finance minister too. That's set to begin in a few 
 
 hours' time. He's expected to announce new fiscal stimulus measures to help boost the economy. Recent fiscal measures, however, have underwhelmed so 
 
 far. So, we'll see what happens there.
 
The Shanghai Composite falling more than 2.5 percent Friday. However, we could see a rally Monday if investors like what they hear. The Nikkei, in 
 
 the meantime, finishing the week with games.
 
Now, another business news, Elon Musk giving us a sneak peek of what he believes to be our autonomous vehicle and robotic future at a glitzy L.A. 
 
 event during the presentation called We, Robot, Musk showed off Tesla's new driverless cyber cab as well as a multiple seat robovan.
 
He also turned the event into a bit of a dance party showing off the slick choreography of Tesla's Optimus robots. Musk says Tesla's new products will 
 
 be gamechangers and help contribute to a brighter tomorrow.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ELON MUSK, CEO, TESLA:  You see a lot of sci-fi movies where the future is dark and dismal, where it's not a future you want to be in. We want to have 
 
 a fun, exciting future that if you could look in a crystal ball and see the future, you'd be like, yes, I wish I could be there now.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Musk clearly upbeat there, a sharp contrast though to a lot of analysts who follow Tesla. They say the event was long on special effects 
 
 and short on the details, the disappointment deep enough that Tesla finished Friday's session down almost 9 percent.
 
Let's bring in Clare Duffy. Clare, we're going to talk to an optimist on Tesla next. So, you can give us the worst. What was so disappointing about 
 
 what we got?
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER:  Yes, Julia, I think the big question here is how much is any of this actually tethered to reality? I mean, it 
 
 looks very nice. You have these cyber cabs that don't need a steering wheel or a gas pedal. You don't even need to plug them in to charge them. And 
 
 Musk did say he hopes to have those in production probably by 2026, but we know that Musk is notorious for making these timeline predictions that he 
 
 can't deliver on. He himself acknowledged that last night.
 
And it was five years ago that he said he expected his fleet of Robotaxis to be available within a year. That was five years ago, and now we're only 
 
 just seeing them and in this very controlled demo environment. Whereas we have competitors like Google's Waymo that are already out on the streets, 
 
 driving people around autonomously in major cities.
 
And so, I think that's the big question for investors is, what is the timeline for any of this actually look like? And what is the business model 
 
 look like? Who are you selling these cyber cabs to? How are people hailing them? What is that going to cost? This just seems much more like, as you 
 
 see there, Musk trying to create this vision for a sort of sci-fi future without a lot of actual details for what the business is going to be.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Interesting. Clare, we're going to talk more about this. Perhaps we just need a bit of patience. Perhaps, you know, on some kind of 
 
 vision like this, but I understand the points. Great to have you with us, Clare. Have a great weekend. Clare Duffy there.
 
DUFFY:  Thanks.
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  All right. Let's talk more. Dan Ives of Wedbush Securities was at the event and he joins us now. Dan, I know you were listening to that. 
 
 Do you understand some of the concerns? And I guess do you also agree? Because I know how you feel, and I know you think this is a pivot point for 
 
 what is right now arguably a car company to become this disruptive tech mobility A.I. robotics giant.
 
DAN IVES, MANAGING DIRECTOR, WEDBUSH SECURITIES:  Yes. I mean, Julia, my view is NVIDIA go even three years ago, they're a gaming company. Why are 
 
 you focused on A.I.? Microsoft's just a regular Windows company, why are you focused on cloud? The point is for Tesla, this is the future. 
 
 Autonomous, robotics, disruptive tech.
 
I've covered tech almost 25 years. Where I saw yesterday in L.A., I think was a game changer and you go short on details. I get it. But this is the 
 
 new chapter, the new book for Tesla.
 
CHATTERLEY:  What did you actually see, Dan, that got you so excited? Because for the majority of us, we're sort of trying to guess what we're 
 
 looking at. We weren't at the event. We don't know how good the sort of autonomous cyber cab looks like. We saw Optimus, which is those robots and 
 
 the sort of suggestion that this could cost the same as a car and be like a personal robot in your house.
 
I mean, it is a vision of the future that most of us quite, frankly, can't grasp. Can you see, because you were there in person, real potential 
 
 versus, as Clare was saying, sort of sci-fi optimism?
 
IVES:  Well, yes, look. What Clare is -- sci-fi optimism, maybe that was three, four years ago. Here, you look at cyber can, imagine there could be 
 
 70,000, 80,000 of these on the road as we go into 2026, 2027. In terms of test driving it, smooth ride, no issues in terms of what I see with the 
 
 interventions. And it was like, I feel like they are getting closer and closer to what's essentially full autonomous in those cars, no steering 
 
 wheel, no pedal.
 
When you look at Optimus, I mean, you're talking about a robot that you're -- literally making margaritas for guests while taking selfies. The point 
 
 is like this now goes into a new age. You do about A.I., this is going to be one of the biggest used cases when it comes to -- 
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I read one article today, Dan, that was saying that actually this highlights how much potential actually NVIDIA has and how 
 
 advanced they are but also, for other players, be it Uber, that are in this autonomous vehicle space actually how advanced they are relative to Tesla. 
 
 Do you buy any of that?
 
IVES:  Look, I -- it's not a zero-sum game. I mean, we're talking about -- we're in a -- as me and you have talked about many times, fourth industrial 
 
 revolution, the A.I. revolution led by godfather of A.I., (INAUDIBLE) NVIDIA. But many others across tech are going to be huge winners, from 
 
 Apple to Amazon to Uber. And I continue to think Tesla is front and center.
 
Now, it looks scarce in details. We all know Musk is not going to, you know, really go up there and give so many details. This lays the groundwork 
 
 for what I kind of view is this A.I. chapter, this really A.I. future at Tesla.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Very quickly, Dan, do you think they could give us more detail if they wanted to?
 
IVES:  I think they also have to be careful, can't give away the playbook, right? So, last thing they want to do, give details that maybe have to get 
 
 pushed back. You don't want to -- you know, you want to take genie out of the bottle, can't put it back in.
 
These were product you saw front, and anyone that was at that event and if you came away more negative, you know, I just -- I don't really understand 
 
 that just given what I saw from your technology.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, interesting. And I think that really matters because the rest of us are just talking heads, quite frankly, you have to be there 
 
 really to see it and to feel it. Your price target $300. Even Morgan Stanley that were pretty negative on the substance in detail have a $310 
 
 price target, which always makes me smile. Dan, great to chat to you as always, sir. Thank you. Dan Ives.
 
IVES:  Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  All right. Next, North Korea claims the South sent propaganda by drones all the way to -- in Seoul with the details, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more international headlines this hour. At their first meeting together, Russian President 
 
 Vladimir Putin said he and his Iranian counterpart share a very close world view. President Putin and Masoud Pezeshkian met at a regional summit in the 
 
 capital of Turkmenistan. Putin said Russia is working together with Iran in the international arena.
 
Any clue could help solve one of Mt. Everest's great mysteries. A boot and sock with the name label A.C. Irvine were discovered on the mountain 
 
 sticking out of a melting glacier. It likely belonged to Andrew Irvine, a British climber who disappeared with George Mallory back in 1924. It's 
 
 unknown whether the two ever reached the summit of Everest. If they did, that would make them the first mountaineers to accomplish the feat. A key 
 
 piece of evidence still missing is the camera they were carrying on their ascent.
 
Pyongyang is accusing South Korea of flying drones filled with propaganda over the city and is threatening to retaliate. North Korean state media 
 
 shared these images showing an alleged South Korean drone along with leaflets it was reportedly carrying. Seoul isn't confirming nor denying the 
 
 claims.
 
Mike Valerio is standing by with more details. Mike, the question is this real? And do we know if indeed it is real, who was behind it?
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  That is the central question, Julia. Who is behind this? And at this hour from the Seoul Bureau here, we don't know 
 
 the answer to that question. Was this South Korea? The South Korean government or military? Was this a South Korean citizen? Or could this be 
 
 some other possibility?
 
So, Julia, we're going to start off with the photos that came from South Korea -- or I should say North Korea. Korean state media. You see flyers 
 
 right there. There are also some videos right there of what the north is claiming is a drone, it says in Korean on the right-hand side, drone, the 
 
 smaller circle that you see there, it says a leaflet packet being scattered in the skies above Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea.
 
So, we take it back to late last night, just a few hours ago here, where we get a very unusual message from North Korean state media, and it says not 
 
 once, Julia, but three times since last week, South Korea has, the claim here, sent drones over the heart of the capital, even flying over one of 
 
 the central buildings that's used as the parliament in North Korea. So, a pretty stunning accusation.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
But, you know, we move to the parts that are certainly unclear. When we look back at those photos, specifically of the flyers, from what we can 
 
 tell in Korean, they are describing the quantities of food that North Korea would have if its economy were not beset by sanctions, if it were not so 
 
 isolated, if it did not have its nuclear program.
 
But a lot of these photos you can see are blurred, and we're wondering here why. If North Korea is trying to prove authenticity, why would it blur 
 
 these photos? Why would it release still images, Julia, of these alleged drones rather than video? Show us what you have. That is certainly the 
 
 message is coming from South Korea.
 
The greater context here, Julia, you know as well as I do, this seems to be in the context of thousands of trash balloons coming from North Korea, 
 
 falling here on the South Korean side since May in retaliation for years of South Korean activists sending balloons to their friends and family in the 
 
 North with scenes of modern life, with K-pop music, with U.S. $1 bills, showing that there is freedom on the other side of the border, booming 
 
 economy as well.
 
So, a lot of unanswered questions. The South Korean defense minister was with lawmakers when this news broke late last night and lawmakers asked 
 
 him, you know, was this us? Did we do this? And the quote that he has, Julia, he said, we did not, but I need to assess the situation.
 
A little after that, the South Korean Joint Chiefs of Staff seem to walk back that statement, saying, we can neither confirm nor deny that this 
 
 drone -- drones, plural, came from South Korea. It's certainly a serious matter. I would not call it an escalation. We have to be very careful with 
 
 our language. But the North is describing this as a grave military attack for which South Korea must pay a dear price.
 
So, a lot of bellicose rhetoric has come from North Korea over the years. We are just waiting to see what more information we can get from government 
 
 officials here in Seoul to find out who did this? Who is responsible for this? What is the exact motivation here as we start the weekend here in 
 
 South Korea? Julia
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, everyone being very careful about how they're referring to this, certainly on the South Korean side. And I guess on the North 
 
 Korean side, I would blur it because otherwise you could argue they're amplifying the propaganda. So, I can sort of see reasoning on all sides 
 
 here. We'll continue to track it. Mike, great to have you with us. Thank you. Mike Valerio there.
 
VALERIO:  Thanks, Julia. Thanks.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thank you. All right. Coming up after the break, no talk, no tipping, rubbing you up the right way, the rise of an A.I. driven massage 
 
 therapy, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." Now, when drawing up a list of careers most at risk from being affected by A.I., I must admit massage 
 
 therapists were near the top of it. But my next guest is hands down committed to using robots to disrupt the spa sector. Aescape provides fully 
 
 automated self-service device, which uses two robotic arms to ease away aches and pains.
 
A touchscreen controls the process and you choose how hard it should feel. I'm told it's physically impossible for it to hurt you. The company's 
 
 machines are already in selected Equinox gyms in New York City at a cost of $60 for 30 minutes. This month, the company's installing them also in Four 
 
 Seasons Resorts.
 
Now, founder and CEO Eric Litman has suffered in the past from chronic back pain and had the idea to automate the massage process. And Eric joins us 
 
 now. Eric, fantastic to have you with us. So, it was born in many respects out of personal need, but just explain how the technology works and how it 
 
 differs from a human masseuse or massage therapist.
 
ERIC LITMAN, FOUNDER AND CEO, AESCAPE:  When you come in for an Aescape massage, you are putting yourself in full control. It's quite different 
 
 from an experience you would have at the therapist. Our system scans your body and creates a model of you that really personalizes the massage very 
 
 much to how your body exists in that particular moment, and you get to drive. You can choose to close your eyes and just enjoy it, which I know a 
 
 lot of people love to do, or you can fine tune it very specifically to the things that work best for your body.
 
CHATTERLEY:  So, you come in -- I've seen the pictures now, and you get a customized suit that allows for that 3D imaging to get a sense of your 
 
 body, but then you can control the pressure, you can control the music in the room, the little nodes on the end that massage you, they're warmed, I 
 
 believe, as well.
 
LITMAN:  As you're lying on the table, there's a touch screen in front of you that shows off your body in 3D and gives you the ability to make those 
 
 changes you were just talking about. So, you can make it harder in one spot and softer in another. Never feel that discomfort you may feel with a 
 
 massage therapist where you aren't getting exactly what you want, but they're the expert and you don't really want to push on them pushing on 
 
 you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  One of the other things I like about it is that there's no talking, as well, which can also be an interference in a massage as well. 
 
 Where's the A.I., though? Because I sort of teased the A.I. angle here. Where is the learning concept of this?
 
LITMAN:  So, when we scan your body, we gather over a million data points on you specifically, and that empowers us to really understand human bodies 
 
 and the differences between them. The arms themselves have really sensitive sensors in them that allow us to feel what's happening beneath the skin.
 
So, over time, we can build up and train the models that learn from every change you make, every adjustment you make, tied to the shape of your body 
 
 and the state of you at any given point in time, ideally getting to a place where it takes you on a journey from visit to visit and helps you to get 
 
 through the pain you may be feeling, recovery that you may need from exercise, workouts, or life otherwise, and become something that's highly 
 
 tuned to you specifically.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, despite your team's best efforts to get me in there to trial this, we've not managed to connect, but you're convincing me now that 
 
 I need to come and try it. Some of the things that sort of occurred to me as I was even watching was, I don't see how it gets to some of the smaller 
 
 muscles, perhaps, and you are limited to being facedown. You don't reverse at this stage, at least, and get sort of the top part of your arms, for 
 
 example, or the tops of your legs massaged.
 
Do you have any sort of intention of adjusting this as you go forward, or for now, is this the way it is?
 
LITMAN:  Yes, so right at the moment we do from the upper back down to the bottom of the glutes. And I will say the glutes are the most popular parts 
 
 of our massages. We're just about to launch hamstrings and they feel great. That's coming up just this week. And then, we'll be working on the other 
 
 parts of the body.
 
Now, if you look at what's at the end of the robot arms there, what we call our air points, they have seven different surfaces on them capable of 
 
 applying force to you in different ways. Meaning, we can turn them onto the different surfaces and get really specific. So, if there's a broad stroke 
 
 that feels really good for relieving tension in the lower back, we can do that with a broad area. But if there's that little muscle right in between 
 
 your shoulder blades, it just has a knot and needs to get worked out, we can do that with the fine point too.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. So, you're saying actually there are some capabilities. I have about 30 seconds left. Why can't this hurt you? Why can't you actually 
 
 sort of ramp up the pressure so much that you actually do an injury to yourself or are there limitations?
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
LITMAN:  Yes, the arms themselves are very intentionally designed to only be mechanically strong enough to give a good massage. The gears, the motors 
 
 in them can only output enough force to help you feel great and not do anything more than that.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, because I think we've all walked away from a massage and gone, wow. I think that was perhaps a little over excitable. We're going to 
 
 have to continue this conversation again. And next time I'm going to have been -- and I'll have a proper view on how it feels. But for now, Eric, 
 
 fascinating to see, and we'll track progress. No doubt. Eric Litman there, the CEO of Aescape. Thank you, sir.
 
All right. Still ahead, now, does that sound bring back memories? If it does, then boy do we have a museum for you. Japan's new Nintendo Museum, up 
 
 next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." Now, Paris has the Louvre, New York has the Guggenheim, but Japan's Kyoto may have one of the most 
 
 immersive museums of them all, the Nintendo Museum. It officially opened its doors last week. Call it perhaps the Super Mario of museums. Hanako's 
 
 back with us and reports on more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MONTGOMERY (voice-over):  That is the sound that brings childhood memories to millions. Nintendo opens its very first museum, giving people the chance 
 
 to explore Mario's world and guiding visitors through the company's 135- year history.
 
FERNANDO PATINO, MEXICAN TOURIST:  When I was a little boy, I imagine like, wow, I want to be a game programmer someday. But in Mexico, it was like, 
 
 where, you know, it's something super new, even in these days. But the music of the games is the thinking that I like the most. I think it was 
 
 very creative.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  The characters are really cute, and the games are pretty good. They always put new ideas into the games, 
 
 which I really like.
 
MONTGOMERY (voice-over):  From adorable characters like Toad, to interactive games, and even a burger themed restaurant. The museum also 
 
 features a massive hall with almost every product ever released by the company. Nintendo fans can now enjoy an interactive experience with their 
 
 favorite characters.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  Zelda.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Link.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Mario, Zelda, F-Zero.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild.
 
MONTGOMERY (voice-over):  And may encounter another fan favorite. A Pokelid with an original Pikachu design featuring a Game Boy is also on display.
 
But visiting this highly anticipated museum is not as easy as it sounds. Visitors have to sign up for a lottery ticket system at least three months 
 
 in advance. Even with the wait, fans are excited to be a part of Nintendo for a few hours.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator):  I think they've added a new route for us to find out more about Nintendo. Not just the goods, but also 
 
 the history of Nintendo in the past. It feels like we've gained another tool.
 
Hanako Montgomery, CNN, Tokyo.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Wow. A three-month wait. There's no excuse needed to go to Kyoto anyway. It's beautiful.
 
And finally, on "First Move," keep your eyes on the skies in the Northern Hemisphere. That's where the aurora borealis has been putting on quite a 
 
 show. There's been stunning displays of color like the one above the U.S. State of Maine. Now, what you're seeing is the result of increased solar 
 
 activity around the Earth's poles. But this time around, the displays of the Northern Lights are visible farther south than usual. The U.S. Space 
 
 weather prediction center, the best places to view the lights are highlighted in red. I'm trying to take a look, slightly less so in the 
 
 green.
 
Now, wherever you are, I wish all my First Movers a very sparkly weekend. There you go. That's a closer look. And that just about wraps up the show. 
 
 Thanks for joining us. You have a great weekend and we'll see you Monday.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END