Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: New Polls Show Close Race In Battleground States Between Presidential Candidates Kamala Harris And Donald Trump; Donald Trump Campaigns In Democratic States Of Colorado And California; Kamala Harris Releases Medical Information; Diplomatic Efforts Being Made To Limit Israeli Response To Recent Iranian Missile Attack on Israel; More Than One Million Florida Residents Still Without Power In Wake Of Hurricane Milton; One Person Dead And 12 Injured After Shooting At Halloween Party In Oklahoma City; Haitian Immigrant In Springfield, Ohio, Discusses Experience After Donald Trump's Comments During Presidential Debate. Aired 2-3p ET

Aired October 12, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:00:26]
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN HOST: Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Alex Marquardt.
 
We are now just 24 days away from the November presidential election, and brand-new polling out today in two key battleground states is giving us a glimpse of where this high stakes race stands as we near Election Day on November 5th.
 
A just released "New York Times"-Sienna College poll shows a bit of a tossup race in two key swing states. The new polling has Vice President Kamala Harris with that slight lead in Pennsylvania, while former President Donald Trump takes on a similar size lead in Arizona. Both candidates on the campaign trail today traveling to battleground states on opposite sides of the country. 
 
Trump is campaigning out west. Next couple of hours we'll be seeing him holding a roundtable campaign event near Las Vegas. That's of course in battleground Nevada. Later tonight he's heading to deep blue California for a rare campaign rally in that state where he lost by nearly 30 points back in 2020. 
 
CNN's Kristen Holmes who covers the Trump campaign joining us now from California where that rally is going to be held tonight. So Kristen, what is this strategy by the Trump campaign to hold this rally in very blue California where he lost by 5 million votes four years ago?
 
KRISTEN HOLMES, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Alex, it's not even just California. He was in Colorado yesterday, which is also a blue state. We know that they've been teasing this Madison Square Garden rally, which obviously New York, very deep blue. He also has an event coming up this week in Chicago, Illinois, another blue city in a blue state. 
 
Now, what they say is that, yes, they are doing these kinds of blue rallies, but that they are still going to swing states. In terms of why they are using this final sprint, particularly when you see those polls that are so narrow in those battleground states, why they're using this time to go to a blue state, they kind of go into an explanation that it doesn't really matter where he is. 
 
Senior advisors saying that the voters that they're really trying to reach in this final sprint, yes, they are in swing states, many of them, but a lot of them are low propensity voters, people who don't often go to the polls, people who don't often engage in your typical media landscape when it comes to politics. And they say an event like this, one, will be covered by national media, two, will still get the reach, whether it be on social media cutting clips, whether those air on podcasts or part of YouTube streamers' channels. 
 
These are all ways they're trying to reach those voters, and they argue that they could actually reach more voters from an event like today than just doing a traditional rally in a swing state. Obviously, there's a lot of risk in this strategy, not something we have seen before, and we'll see on November if that pays off. 
 
And just one thing I want to mention, we talked a little bit about this earlier, was that rally in Colorado yesterday, one of the things we heard Donald Trump do there was doubled down on this dark rhetoric around immigration. We'll listen for that today. 
 
But talking to people around him, they believe that that rhetoric is going to help propel him to the White House. And you look at those poll margins, they say they think that kind of fear based rhetoric around immigration or the economy is working for the former president.
 
MARQUARDT: Yes, it really raises questions about how much undecided voters want to see those candidates up close, see them in their communities versus just on social media or on national news. Kristen Holmes in Coachella, California, thank you very much. 
 
In the next couple hours, Vice President Harris will be heading to battleground and storm-battered North Carolina. She's spending the weekend there in that critical battleground state before heading on to Pennsylvania, yet another battleground state on Monday.
 
Earlier today, the vice president released her medical information. Her doctor detailing the 59-year-old vice president's medical history with a health report. CNN's Priscilla Alvarez joining us now live in Washington. So Priscilla, what more can you tell us about this medical report and the campaigns plans for this weekend? 
 
PRISCILLA ALVAREZ, CNN REPORTER: Well, the vice president's doctor saying that she is in, quote, excellent health, and this letter summarizing her medical history. It's the first time that the vice president's office has released her medical records with this level of detail. And in this letter, the doctor says that she has seasonal allergies, hives, and is near-sighted, but also notes that her routine blood work and our April physical exam show no causes for alarm. 
 
That is the resounding message in this two-page letter that also concludes with this, quote, "She possesses the physical and mental resiliency required to successfully execute the duties of the presidency, to include those as chief executive, head of state, and commander in chief." 
 <br>[14:05:03]
 
Of course, this letter coming only weeks shy of Election Day, the Harris campaign trying to draw a stark contrast with former President Donald Trump on the issue of age as well. Of course, the former president is 78 years old, and this was -- age, that is, a top concern for voters earlier this year when the matchup was between President Joe Biden and former President Donald Trump. So the doctor essentially saying here that the vice president has a clean bill of health. 
 
Now, again, as you mentioned there, the vice president is going to be headed to North Carolina today. There she will be going to a local restaurant to meet with local block officials and community leaders as well as help with some of those hurricane relief efforts before tomorrow going to Greenville, North Carolina, where she is going to be participating in a church service and delivering remarks before a campaign rally there.
 
All of this, though, Alex, is the vice president put a doubling down on black voter outreach, a key part of the Democratic coalition that they're trying to lock in amid waning enthusiasm. So certainly part of the focus here as she heads to North Carolina later this afternoon.
 
MARQUARDT: Yes, making a real push in that state. Priscilla Alvarez covering the Harris campaign, thank you very much. 
 
Joining me now to discuss the vice president's medical report is Dr. Lipi Roy. She's a physician at Greenwich House in New York. Dr. Roy, thank you very much for joining us. You heard Priscilla there ticking off some of the highlights of that medical report. What are your takeaways? 
 
DR. LIPI ROY, INTERNAL MEDICINE PHYSICIAN: Good to see you, Alex. This is such an important discussion. I think transparency is key, a key aspect of leadership. The health and well-being of any elected official, particularly that of the leader of the western world, is relevant to the public. 
 
Let me first disclose that I have not personally evaluated either presidential candidate, but I did review the medical report. And as a doctor, I found it very reassuring. The report stated that Vice President Harris is a healthy 59-year-old female whose medical history is really notable for seasonal allergies, hives, or urticaria, which are hives, a benign skin condition, and nearsightedness for which she uses corrective lenses.
 
She also has no history of chronic conditions, like heart disease, lung disease, neurologic disorders, diabetes. Her physical exam -- as a former primary care doctor, Alex, her blood pressures probably better than mine. So all of that for me, it was very reassuring. 
 
I mean, I think the only aspect of the report that was missing was a mental status exam. But really there's no compelling reason to perform a full mental status exam on an otherwise healthy individual of the V.P.'s age who appears articulate and cognitively intact. So from that standpoint, I found it a pretty reassuring report, Alex.
 
MARQUARDT: And doctor, in terms of family history, which of course is something that anybody checking out a candidate is going to consider, we know that the vice president's mother died of colon cancer at age 70. Is that something that is hereditary and could be cause for concern? 
 
ROY: Yes, great question. Interestingly enough, and sadly enough, we are actually seeing an incidence of a rise in colon cancer among younger people, people in their 40s. So that in itself is actually not that concerning. This is coming from somebody who has her own family history, also on my maternal side of both of my grandparents dying of colon cancer. So this is a topic I take very seriously. If you also read the report, she's also getting her routine preventive screening, including colonoscopies. So as long as she's getting those routinely and there's no -- really should be no cause for concern. 
 
I will just say that based on years of just going back to, like, mental status and judgment, based on years of observing V.P. Harris in interviews and public appearances, I feel that she's somebody who is clearly mentally and cognitively stable. And as a physician and a public citizen who is, by the way, going to be a first-time voter. 
 
I just got my citizenship last year, I want a leader who is physically and mentally strong, who displays empathy and good judgment, especially during a crisis such as COVID. I was in New York City, New York state, which was the global epicenter for COVID. You want a leader who is making sound judgments that are rooted in science and empathy. That's what I think we all need in a leader, Alex. 
 
MARQUARDT: Yes. And you noted transparency at the top, and we should just say that we have we know relatively little about her rival, Donald Trump's latest health conditions on a number of fronts. Dr. Lipi Roy, thank you so much for your thoughts today.
 
ROY: Anytime.
 
MARQUARDT: Still to come, Milton and Helene leaving a vast trail of destruction in Florida. The newest threat, rising floodwaters.
 
Plus, urgent diplomatic efforts in Iran. They're looking to try to reduce the scale of Israel's response to the Iranian missile attack against Israel earlier this month. We are live in the region. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:14:38]
 
MARQUARDT: New developments today in the Middle East with Iran now telling the United States and other Middle Eastern countries that it will retaliate against any new Israeli attack. It follows days of urgent diplomacy across the region, but including by Tehran to try to gauge whether it can reduce the scale of Israel's response to their Iranian missile attack against Israel earlier this month. We are lucky to have Fred Pleitgen in Tehran and CNN's Nic Robertson
 
 in Tel Aviv. Thank you both for joining me. 
 <br>[14:15:04]
 
Fred, I want to start with you. An Israeli retaliation for Iran's recent ballistic missile attack against Israel could come at any moment. Iran saying it is both ready to retaliate, but clearly hoping that the expected Israeli strike is not to punishing.
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I certainly think that that's correct. I mean, one of the things that we also have to point out is that the same unit that actually conducted that ballistic missile attack against Israel last week, they are also the same ones, Alex, who are responsible for air defense here in this country, the Revolutionary Guard aerospace forces. And no doubt, those forces will have been on high alert tonight and in the past nights as well, waiting to see whether or not the Israelis strike.
 
But you're absolutely right. A source with knowledge of the discussions here inside Iran has said that the Iranians have said that they will retaliate against any attack coming from Israel and that they have communicated that not just to countries here in the region, but to the United States as well, of course, that meaning through intermediaries, since the two countries do not have any sort of direct relations.
 
And at the same time, you have had that diplomacy going on. You've had the foreign minister, for instance, traveling around the region to Saudi Arabia, saying there that all of this can only be solved through more cooperation between the countries of the region, at the same time, of course, trying to bring countries like Saudi Arabia or to the course that Iran has as well. 
 
And then today, you had the speaker of Iranian parliament, he was sent to Beirut in Lebanon with a message from Iran Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei saying that Iran will continue to not only support Lebanon, but specifically support Hezbollah as well, Alex.
 
MARQUARDT: And that strike by Iran against Israel, Nic, was ostensibly in response to the killing by Israel of Hassan Nasrallah, the head of Hezbollah. And now we know that Hezbollah has continued to fire rockets into Israel on Saturday. And we just saw one of the deadliest strikes by Israel yet in Beirut. That was just yesterday. So where do things stand in Lebanon, Nic?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes, the death toll continues to climb, 2,255 people confirmed dead by the ministry of health in Lebanon since the operations, IDF operations began, striking first with the pagers, the walkie-talkies, the bombs, and now the cross-border. It continues to grow with ferocity and it expands. The IDF today announcing another 24 villages, 19 of them new villages, giving them evacuation orders inside of Lebanon. And this is telling them they need to move 30 miles north of the border.
 
South of the border, we just heard from the IDF in the last few minutes actually expanding their closed military zones along the, along the Lebanese border, which means there's another part of that border as of tonight that can become, and I know this area because we were up there last week, that wasn't active military IDF there and thereabouts now becomes a closed military zone, which implies active military operations will begin there. So there's at least four of these zones across the northern border. This one more towards the west. 
 
So the tempo is up. The incoming rockets today, 90 plus according to the IDF, three people injured by shrapnel in the north of the country. But over the Yom Kippur, 6:00 p.m. Friday, 6:00 p.m. today local times, more than 320 missiles incoming from Hezbollah. Hezbollah saying that it's targeting collections of troops inside of Israel. 
 
If they are the IDF, if they've been successful, the IDF hasn't admitted it, and what we see is mostly than falling in open areas or being intercepted. One last night, though, hitting just about six or seven miles up the road here from Tel Aviv, hitting a nursing home there, a drone, a Hezbollah drone causing limited damage. But obviously people in that building, a nursing home for old people, they had to go take shelter in the shelter rooms.
 
MARQUARDT: All right, Nic Robertson in Tel Aviv, Fred Pleitgen in Tehran, thank you both for your terrific reporting at a time when tension really is at its highest moment in the past year.
 
I want to get more analysis with Rym Momtaz, a foreign policy expert and the editor in chief of Carnegie Europe's Strategic Europe Blog. Rym, thank you so much for joining us. You're coming to us from Paris where officials have been very involved in trying to reach a ceasefire in Lebanon. Hezbollah says they now support ceasefire efforts, perhaps because they're getting battered by Israel, while the U.S. notably is no longer pushing for a ceasefire, instead supporting these Israeli military operations. Do you see those operations ending anytime soon.
 
RYM MOMTAZ, EDITOR IN CHIEF, CARNEGIE EUROPE'S STRATEGIC EUROPE BLOG: Good to be with you, Alex. Unfortunately, no, it doesn't look like any of the goals that Israel has set for itself, which continue, by the way, to expand will allow their military operations to end anytime soon.
 <br>[14:20:00]
 
They started their operations by saying that they wanted to just push Hezbollah off of their northern border so that their citizens in the north could come back, the ones who have been forcibly displaced since October 2023. Now we're seeing them put out these evacuation notices to the Lebanese way off the border, which could be a sign that the Israelis are now planning a more, a deeper invasion, and possibly an occupation of southern Lebanon. 
 
MARQUARDT: That, of course, is a major concern among the Lebanese population. Rym, it is clear, I think you would agree, that the U.S. sees an opening here for what they hoped would be a stronger Lebanese government. This is a country that has been consumed by turmoil for the past few years, a government that marginalizes Hezbollah. How likely do you think that is? 
 
MOMTAZ: Well, I mean I think that in itself is maybe a great goal. The problem is what happens between now and the day that that is possible. The issue with the current trajectory is that the Israeli occupation that may happen, but even just the Israeli invasion that is about the happen, is taking the risk of leading to either a breakdown of the state in Lebanon that is already week, or a full-blown situation of civil strife or even civil war in the worst-case scenario in Lebanon.
 
And if that happens, that will create a situation to the north of Israel that most probably he will render the security of the citizens of Israel in the north much harder to keep in place. And so this is the question that I think in the U.S. government, but also in the Israeli government, no one really has an answer. 
 
The risk that is being taken right now in the pretext of weakening Hezbollah while the Lebanese state is still so week, while the Lebanese military is still unable, because it doesn't have neither the means nor, right now, the political cover to take over the south and push Hezbollah off the border. If that happens while the Lebanese state hasn't been weakened -- hasn't been strengthened, then we are looking at a very big risk of a breakdown of whatever remains of the Lebanese state.
 
MARQUARDT: A couple of days ago, Rym, we saw this message from Prime Minister Netanyahu. It was a video message. It was an English in which he made this appeal to the Lebanese people, calling on Lebanon to push out Hezbollah. How does a message like that go down in Lebanon, a place where so many people do wish that Hezbollah would crumble. But this time that message is coming from Netanyahu, of course, whose forces are pummeling the country.
 
MOMTAZ: I think that's an essential question. I think it's important to understand that while 70 percent, more or less, of the Lebanese population doesn't support Hezbollah's actions or policies, they also aren't glad to be seeing Israel attacking their country and leading to this much turmoil and this much destruction. And so for most of the Lebanese, it's neither Hezbollah nor Israel. That is the first thing. 
 
Second, the way that Netanyahu message landed among the Lebanese is with a lot of concern. The Lebanese today, whether they're in Beirut or in the south, are enduring daily drones above their heads 24/7. That's a kind of psychological warfare. They're also enduring daily, very heavy bombing that is leading to a lot of civilian casualties. But more importantly massive displacement that is pressuring a lot of the infrastructure that is already under strain. 
 
And the way Netanyahu formulated it sounded to the Lebanese as either a choice between civil war amongst themselves, so for them to take up arms against Hezbollah while they don't necessarily have the means right now, or face a devastating war by Israel. And they've been down this road before. In 1982, Israel invaded southern Lebanon, got all the way to west Beirut while saying that it was going to be a limited operation. It ended up being an 18-year-long occupation of southern Lebanon with the creation of Hezbollah. And we see what Hezbollah has become today. MARQUARDT: Rym, we only have a few moments left, but in your recent
 
 writing, you've been calling on Europe to step up, intercede to help Lebanon. What power, what leverage do you think they have to make sure that things don't get worse? 
 
MOMTAZ: Yes. I mean, the Europeans, for example, provide the troops of the U.N. peacekeeping operation that is on the border between Lebanon and Israel, the troops that the Israelis are now targeting almost daily. We saw France, Spain, and Italy, which are the biggest contingents in that in that operation very strongly condemning that targeting. 
 <br>[14:25:08]
 
They could, for example, expand their rules of engagement and hold their ground, which will be necessary in order to keep the peace. They also could, for example, France and the U.K. have a very deep relationship with the Lebanese military. They could provide more weapons, more training, more support. That will be necessary in order to, on the one hand, push Hezbollah off of the southern border, but also prevent an occupation by Israel. 
 
Also, the E.U. may put on the table $1 billion euros in order in terms of aid to provide to the Lebanese government to prevent migrants from coming from Lebanon to Europe. That money could be redirected, for example, to help in immediate humanitarian aid needs, which are very, very large, and also toward supporting the Lebanese military. 
 
MARQUARDT: A really critical and dangerous from moment. Rym Momtaz, thank you so much for coming on with us. I really appreciate it.
 
MOMTAZ: Thank you, Alex.
 
MARQUARDT: And coming up, rescue operations continue in Florida as about 1.5 million customers are without power. Another major concern, gas stations without fuel. What the governor says they are doing to help Floridians, that's next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:30:48]
 
MARQUARDT: Progress is being made with the truly herculean task of recovering from hurricane Milton. About 1.5 million customers remain in the dark in Florida. That's down from more than 2 million yesterday morning. And Florida Governor Ron DeSantis says the state is opening three fuel depots to help distribute gas to stations that are running dry. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
GOV. RON DESANTIS, (R-FL): These public fuels sites, although we have done fuel support in the past, we've never done it to this scale. And that is on top of the amount of fuel that we provided directly to service stations. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARQUARDT: More than 1,000 rescues have been made since Milton made landfall, many from floodwater in the Tampa area. The threat of flooding will continue as the rivers and lakes crest throughout the weekend. CNN's Brian Todd has the latest.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As rescue efforts continue across Florida, survivors still reeling from the destruction left by powerful hurricane Milton. In hard hit St. Lucie County, Shane Ostrander, his wife Nicole, and their dog, had to scramble into a closet when a tornado hit them near Fort Pierce on Wednesday. He describes when the twister slammed into their house.
 
SHANE OSTRANDER, ST. LUCIE COUNTY RESIDENT, LOST HOME IN TORNADO: Heard two bombs -- boom, boom. Ears ringing, insulation everywhere.
 
TODD (voice-over): Shane says when he opened his closet door, he realized he had lost everything.
 
OSTRANDER: I walked the dog this morning, and that's when it hits me. Like when I see the neighbors with terrible damage, this whole neighborhood has been devastated, and I haven't even left the street yet.
 
TODD (voice-over): Robin Longtin lives in the Spanish Lakes Country Club Village neighborhood where at least six people died. She hunkered down and held on as a tornado tore off the roof of her mobile home. 
 
ROBIN LONGTIN, SPANISH LAKES COUNTRY CLUB VILLAGE RESIDENT, LOST HOME IN TORNADO: I literally felt it lift up off the ground, and it jerked back down. And when I opened the door from the safe room, my roof was gone.
 
TODD (voice-over): Robin was able to save her cats and two parakeets but is still coming to grips with the loss of her home.
 
LONGTIN: Devastating, scary, definitely life changing.
 
TODD (voice-over): Others in the same senior community could not escape. Sixty-six-year-old Alejandro Alonso's grandson tells CNN that Alejandro and his girlfriend were killed. The grandson describes Alejandro as an amazing grandfather and a motorcycle lover.
 
CRYSTAL COLEMAN, ST. LUCIE COUNTRY RESIDENT, HOME DAMAGED BY TORNADO: It was literally a tornado was in my house.
 
TODD (voice-over): For those who survived, it's still surreal. This woman hid in her bathroom as a tornado tore off her roof.
 
COLEMAN: It was very life threatening. I feel like I was about to die.
 
TODD (voice-over): Even the county sheriff's building was not spared.
 
SHERIFF KEITH PEARSON, ST. LUCIE COUNTY, FLORIDA: As you can see here, destroyed this building, crumpled red iron metal, destroyed lots of our vehicles.
 
TODD (voice-over): St. Lucie County Sheriff Keith Pearson told us the focus now is on rescues.
 
PEARSON: We're not going to stop until we're able to, you know, rescue or recover as many people as we can.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Where's everybody at?
 
TODD (voice-over): East of Tampa, rescuers wade through knee high waters to evacuate people inside homes in Dover, guiding them with a rope, one by one, to safety. A 91-year-old woman carried out of floodwaters in Lithia.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Got it. We're good.
 
TODD (voice-over): This 77-year-old wrote out the hurricane in his mobile home in St Petersburg.
 
JERALD GILCHRIST, ST. PETERSBURG RESIDENT, RODE OUT HURRICANE MILTON AT HOME: For the few years that I got left, I'd like to stay here.
 
TODD (voice-over): And others slowly picking up the pieces.
 
RALPH GENITO, VALRICO RESIDENT, HOME FLOODED IN HURRICANE: I got to start all over again. Just everything I had there is no good.
 
TODD: Our CNN teams on the west coast of Florida and here on the east coast of the state have spoken to several residents who say they're seriously rethinking the idea of still living in Florida given the severity of the storms here. Two residents of this area have told us they would like to come back and rebuild in their current locations, but only if they can do it with stronger building materials. 
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Fort Pierce, Florida.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARQUARDT: Our thanks to Brian Todd for that report. 
 
One of the most dramatic scenes that we saw as hurricane Milton struck Florida came out of the city of St. Petersburg. That's where a massive construction crane collapsed on an office building as strong winds tore through that area. 
 
I want to bring in Makenna Caskey. She was sheltering nearby when that crane fell. So Makenna, that must have been a really harrowing moment. Walk us through what you saw, what you experienced, what was going through your mind as that crane came crashing down. 
 <br>[14:35:02]
 
MAKENNA CASKEY, ST. PETERSBURG RESIDENT: Absolutely. Hey, Alex, it's good to see you. So I live in the Avante, it's an apartment complex directly behind the office building that the crane impacted. I chose to stay here in my apartment because it's not a flood zone. It's not an evacuation zone. It's a solid concrete building with hurricane windows.
 
My aunt, my dog, and I were all sheltering in our apartment when we heard first and then felt the crane come down. We felt a huge rumbling like an earthquake, like something had collided with the building. And the sounds outside can only be described as thunderous metal, clanking, contorting sounds from right probably a couple hundred feet away from our very location.
 
MARQUARDT: Very well-described and very scary. But now that were three days out from landfall, what's the situation there? 
 
CASKEY: The situation is pretty dire. I personally went to go see the crane the night of the storm to confirm with my own eyes and took pictures of it. And ever since then, St. Petersburg looks something like a war zone. The gasoline situation is extremely dire. Most of my friends are using as many alternative forms of transportation as we can. Cell service is down. Wi-Fi has been very spotty where it has been. Some people have power, some people don't. It feels like we've gone back in time 10 or 15 years to just walking up to your neighbor's door. 
 
MARQUARDT: How about you yourself? Do you have power? Do you have a generator? And how else have you been impacted? 
 
CASKEY: I've been -- I thankfully have power. My building, I believe, is on the same power grid as the John Hopkins and Bay Front hospital. So throughout the storm it flickered a lot but never went out for more than a minute or two at a time. I have half a tank of gas and Wi-Fi, and my place has been something of a refuge for some of my friends. 
 
But where I can as the community comes together, I try to help out those who are less fortunate, friends who flooded from freshwater, who have never seen flooding before, people that need rides, people that can come together however we can. My life and my home is thankfully very safe, but that is not to be said for the majority of my friends. 
 
MARQUARDT: That's great that the community is coming together. When it comes to local, state, federal government, what are you hearing, and what more would you want from them? 
 
CASKEY: I had heard as of earlier today that there have been a couple of sites where we can access gasoline, and I think that is one of the most pressing issues here in St. Petersburg. Most gasoline stations are closed. They either don't have power or they don't have gas, or gas supplies that they do have have been compromised, and no one wants bad gas. 
 
The lines for the places that we do see we are probably more than half a mile long with people being very aggressive, short patience, fights breaking out, cops on every corner. And while I understand that the energy crews are doing their best, the lights being out is a huge safety hazard as well.
 
MARQUARDT: Makenna Caskey, thank you so much for joining us at what is a really tough time. Really appreciate you sharing your experiences with us. CASKEY: Of course. Thank you, Alex.
 
MARQUARDT: And ahead, a Halloween party in Oklahoma City turns deadly. One person dead and at least 12 injured after multiple shots were fired. We'll have the very latest next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:42:44]
 
MARQUARDT: One person is dead after a shooting at a Halloween party in Oklahoma City, and it left 12 other people injured. CNN's Camila Bernal has been following this developing story. So Camila, what more have we learned? 
 
CAMILA BERNAL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Alex. So we know that even though police have not made any arrests, they did detain multiple people. And so police saying they're questioning them, they're trying to talk to witnesses. They're watching videos, trying to piece together exactly what happened on Saturday morning. 
 
And what we know so far is that this happened at an event center. This was a party that was going on, and authorities say that there were two groups that got into a verbal fight. This fight escalated at some point. It's unclear what started this fight, but the groups spilled over into the parking lot. The shooting began at the parking lot, but then they went back into the event center, and the shooting continued there. 
 
There was one person that was killed, and that one person was pronounced dead at the scene. So again, authorities tried to figure out who was responsible for killing that one person, and trying to figure out whether it was one person or multiple people that are responsible for leaving 12 injured.
 
Authorities saying that those 12 people that were injured showed up to local hospitals. We do not have identities. We do not have the condition of these victims or the ages, and we are, of course, asking those questions. Authorities saying they still have a lot of questions, which is why they're going through all of that evidence. 
 
They're also saying that the community is safe because what police say is that this was a contained incident. They said it's isolated. And so again, a lot of work to be done here by authorities. But so far, no arrests have been announced, Alex.
 
MARQUARDT: Yet another joyous celebration broken up by gun violence. Camila Bernal, thank you very much for that report. 
 
When we come back, we will take you to the streets of Springfield, Ohio to see firsthand the impact of the Haitian migrant surge in the city. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:49:20] MARQUARDT: Since 2020, roughly 12,000 Haitian immigrants have moved to Springfield, Ohio, a city that was once struggling to find workers. Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump and his running mate, J.D. Vance, has spent a large portion of their campaign targeting these legal immigrants, but spreading disinformation and threatening to deport them if elected. 
 
In this week's "The Whole Story", CNN's Omar Jimenez takes viewers inside this city. Community members reveal how Haitian immigrants have revitalized the local economy. Here's a preview.
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Alex. Well look, this has been an issue way before any presidential debate in this community. I mean, that debate was September 10th at this point. 
 <br>[14:50:02]
 
Going back years, we were looking through city commission meetings, people were having issues. They were coming to city meetings having issues about translation, about the stresses that you would get with any added population that we've seen, much less Haitian immigrants, like what we've seen in recent times right now. 
 
But one of the main things that has changed, I think, in sort of the adjustments of recent years versus since the last debate is the political temperature of this, because a lot of this has stemmed, a lot of the stress, a lot of the fear, a lot of the tension that I think you see in Springfield right now has stemmed from claims that have not been based on any real evidence. 
 
Obviously, we heard what the former president said about eating pets. We have also heard things perpetuated about crime and things of that nature for these Springfield Haitians, where those in the city government have said that Haitians there are more likely to be victims of crime than they are perpetrators, and that at one point in September, of the nearly 200 people that were in jail at the time, only two were Haitian. 
 
So all -- that's the climate. And then of course you had the initial issues that the city was already dealing with. But take a listen to one Haitian immigrant I spoke to about some of what he's faced since the presidential debate. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP (R), FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 U.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You look at Springfield, Ohio. They're going in violently. They are dangerous. They are at the highest level of criminality.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I left Haiti, first of all, because of insecurity reason, and uncertainty. A friend of mine suggested that I move to Springfield. This month makes it a year since I have been living in Springfield. 
 
JIMENEZ: Did you ever have anybody say something to you personally? 
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): As I was walking down the road, a white man drove by and yelled "Trump!"
 
JIMENEZ: Were you scared when you heard that.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): Yes, I was scared, because I was on the street. I was going to buy something, and I was also walking on foot. So I was scared, and I hurried to get home. 
 
(END VIDEO TAPE)
 
JIMENEZ: And again, that's that fear in some cases, at the very least tension that many Haitians there have faced, but also tension that city officials have faced from folks who have complained about quality of life, specifically around raised prices when you look at housing, because city officials have told us there's a housing crisis that they've been trying to address, partly driven by the increase in population, but one that they saw signs of going all the way back to 2018. 
 
So these are all things that we explore in this hour of "The Whole Story." I'm really excited for people to watch it, to try and get a real picture of what things are looking like on the ground, what the real needs actually are within. Again, this national discourse that at times has not been preferential to the facts. Alex?
 
MARQUARDT: Our thanks to Omar Jimenez for that. It really does look like a fascinating report. Be sure to tune in to an all-new episode of "The Whole Story with Anderson Cooper", one whole hour, one whole story. That airs tomorrow night at 8:00 only on CNN. 
 
Up next, the final sprint of the presidential race, Vice President Kamala Harris has released her medical information while Donald Trump makes campaign stops in overwhelmingly blue Democratic states. We have the latest on the race after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MARQUARDT: The Los Angeles Dodgers sealed their spot in the National League Championship series for the first time since 2021. CNN's Coy Wire explains how a to 2-0 victory against the San Diego Padres topped off a historic season.
 
COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: Hi Alex. This win or go home game showed that the Dodgers still have enough firepower to get it done even when their brightest stars aren't shining. And we did have history in game five. Yu Darvish and Yoshinobu Yamamoto, first time two Japanese pitchers started a playoff game. 
 
Dodgers got to Darvish early, though. Kike Hernandez blasting a solo homerun in the second, giving L.A. the lead. But then Darvish started dealing. He held all three of L.A.'s former MVPs, Shohei Ohtani, Freddie Freeman, and Mookie Betts to just one hit combined. He retires 14 straight.
 
But then in the seventh Teoscar Hernandez says see you later, another solo homer for L.A. Darvish was stellar, except for dudes named Hernandez. L.A. wins to nothing. They're back in the National League Championship series for the sixth time in nine years. They'll face the Mets. Here's part of manager Dave Roberts locker room speech.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DAVE ROBERTS, MANAGER, LOS ANGELES DODGERS: I've never believed in an a group of men more than I believe in you guys, and more importantly, each one of you guys believed in each other. So let's -- and win eight more -- 
 
(CHEERING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
WIRE: Eight more wins, Alex. But at some point, those Dodgers stars are going to have to start hitting if they want to get past those red- hot Mets and get back to the World Series for the first time since 2020.