Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Defining Moments From Night Three of the Democratic National Convention; U.S. Carrier Strike Group Arrives Amid Tensions with Iran; Indian Prime Minister Visiting Poland Ahead of Trip to Ukraine; Ukraine's Okean Elzy Funding Frontline Ambulances with Tour. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired August 22, 2024 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Another peace summit this weekend that idea really that aspiration really seems to be evaporating at the moment. It doesn't have substance and I don't think anyone at the moment believes it is absolutely for sure going to happen. Now things can change. But at the moment the momentum doesn't seem to be to get there. So whatever talks are happening today, they're low-level and they're talking about something that hasn't been even been agreed to yet.
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR: All right, Nic Robertson live for us there in Tel Aviv, thanks Nic. 
 
OK ahead, defining moments from night three of the Democratic National Convention and what's in store for the finale? 
 
Plus, the U.S. is deploying more military power in the Middle East ahead of Iran's expected retaliation against Israel. We'll go live to Tehran for Iran's take on that move.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MACFARLANE: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Christina Macfarlane. Here are some of the top stories We're following today. 
 
Kamala Harris will officially accept the Democratic Party's presidential nomination tonight. The final night of their national convention in Chicago. Harris is expected to present her policy agenda during her speech and Americans are tuning in to the DNC in big numbers. More than 20 million people watched on each of the first two nights according to Nelson data. 
 
And the body of another missing passenger from the luxury yacht that sank off the coast of Sicily has been recovered. Emergency workers recovered the remains of four missing people on Wednesday. Another was found earlier this week. 15 people were rescued from the yacht after it was struck by a tornado early Monday. Search crews are still looking for one missing person. 
 
Russia says it has repelled a new Ukrainian incursion attempt in the border region of Bryansk the neighbors to the Kursk region where Ukraine's military is still advancing. Ukrainian battalion commander tells CNN that Russian troops are starting to put up more of a fight. 
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
The third night of the Democratic National Convention featured a raft of speeches for the party faithful including those from former President Bill Clinton and producer and actor Oprah Winfrey
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OPRAH WINFREY, ACTOR AND TV PRODUCER: We know all the old tricks and tropes that are designed to distract us from what actually matters, but we are beyond ridiculous tweets and lies and foolery. These are complicated times, people, and they require adult conversation.
 
(APPLAUSE)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: But the star of the night was Minnesota Governor Tim Walz, who formally accepted the Democratic Vice Presidential nomination. It was the first major address on a national stage for Coach Walz, as many have dubbed him, and Democrats in Chicago seemed to love it. 
 
CNN's MJ Lee has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MJ LEE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Minnesota Governor Tim Walz delivering the keynote speech of the evening, the third night of the Democratic National Convention, accepting the Vice Presidential nomination from the Democratic Party as we knew he would do. 
 
He leaned into his biography knowing that this was going to be one of the biggest audiences he would have for certain before Election Day. And he wanted to introduce himself fully knowing that most people across America simply do not know who he is.
 
He brought on stage people who have known him for years, who could speak to his character and testify to the Tim Walz that they have known for many years. Here's a little bit of what he had to say about his background.
 
GOV. TIM WALZ (D-MN) U.S. DEMOCRATIC VICE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: You know, you might not know it, but I haven't given a lot of big speeches like this. But I have given a lot of pep talks. 
 
It's the fourth quarter. We're down a field goal. But we're on offense and we've got the ball. We're driving down the field. And boy, do we have the right team.
 
WINFREY: Now one person who was not in the arena tonight was of course, Vice President Kamala Harris. Her team really kept her schedule light today, knowing that she would take all of the time that she wanted today to really focus on her own speech, accepting the presidential nomination from her party tomorrow evening, the final night of the Democratic National Convention. We know from speaking to her advisors that she has been spending the
 
 day really honing in on the delivery of that speech. I was told by one advisor that she has wanted to think through how every sentence of that speech tomorrow night would land to the audience here in the United Center. 
 
But one thing that she did make sure that she did tonight was to give a call to her running mate Tim Walz and wish him luck before he made the speech. This speech, of course, was the speech that the vice president herself was supposed to give to accept her party's nomination for the vice presidency. But that all, of course, changed about a month ago. 
 
MJ Lee, CNN in Chicago.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: The U.S. is boosting its military force in the Middle East amid fears of a potential Iranian attack on Israel. A carrier strike group led by the USS Abraham Lincoln arrived in the region on Wednesday. The move comes weeks after the assassinations of key Hamas and Hezbollah leaders, prompting Iran's pledge to retaliate against Israel and concerns about a full-scale war in the region.
 
More CNN's Fred Pleitgen joins us live from Tehran. And Fred, talk to us about how concerned Iran is by the arrival of this U.S. military to the region.
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi there, Christina. Well, I don't think they're necessarily concerned by that very much. It's something that the Iranians certainly have seen in the past, the U.S. bolstering its military presence in the Persian Gulf, but then also, of course, in the Mediterranean. Anywhere where they would be within striking distance of Iran, and certainly also possibly of Iranian missiles that could be towards Israeli territory that the U.S. no doubt would help shoot down. So it's something the Iranians have seen in the past. 
 
The other thing that the Iranians have been telling us over the past couple of days is that they believe that the U.S. here in the Middle East is very vulnerable to the Iranians as well. They keep saying the U.S. has a lot of military bases here in the Middle East, and next to almost all of those military bases, there are groups that are loyal to Iran or at least sympathetic to Iran that could be dangerous for U.S. assets in the Middle Eastern region.
 
Nevertheless, the Iranians have also said that if there is going to be a response to Israel's attack here on Ismail Haniyeh, the assassination on July 31st, that they need to do well calibrate that attack. One of the things that the Iranians say they certainly don't want to do is further inflame tensions here in the Middle East that could, of course, lead this entire region into a broader conflict that then could also involve the United States as well -- Christina.
 <br>[04:40:00] MACFARLANE: And Fred, there has been, I guess, a belief that Iran have been withholding this attack in order to allow these ceasefire talks to take place. But given the fact that we seem to be in a real stalemate now with the ceasefire talks, what is the feeling in Iran about that and about their response?
 
PLEITGEN: Well, there certainly isn't very much in the way of optimism on the Iranian side. There's sort of been a change in message here coming out of Tehran over the past, I would say, maybe 24 to 36 hours, where the Iranians beforehand had said that their retaliation against Israel has nothing to do with the ceasefire negotiations, that those are unrelated issues. 
 
Well, since yesterday, they've been saying that those issues are indeed related. They say that the retaliation should not have adverse effect on the efforts to get a ceasefire and on a possible ceasefire. However, the Iranians also say they are not optimistic that a ceasefire will happen because they believe that the Israelis are not serious about trying to achieve one. 
 
I was able to speak to the head of the foreign relations committee of Iran's parliament, and here's what he told me about it.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
EBRAHIM AZIZI, IRANIAN PARLIAMENT NATIONAL SECURITY COMMITTEE (through translator): I believe the Israeli regime will not accept a permanent ceasefire. They will not feel committed to any principles, rules, or decisions. We wish the U.S. would not support a regime that violates international principles and does not feel bound by commitments and agreements.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
PLEITGEN: That was the head of Iran's -- of the head of the foreign relations committee of Iran's parliament there. The Iranians in general are still saying that retaliation against Israel will happen, but they do say that there could be a prolonged waiting period until it does happen. At this point in time, they're also not willing to say how, when, and where it will take place -- Christina.
 
MACFARLANE: All right, our Fred Pleitgen there reporting for us live from Tehran. Thanks, Fred. 
 
Now, India's Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, is in Warsaw holding talks with his Polish counterpart, Donald Tusk, as we speak. But the next stop on Modi's itinerary is Ukraine. He's headed there on Friday, just weeks after his trip to Moscow, where he received a friendly reception from Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Indian leader has been calling for a ceasefire in Ukraine, but without condemning Russia's invasion.
 
Well, CNN's Marc Stewart is joining us live now on this. Marc, this visit to Ukraine in particular comes just ahead of Ukrainian Independence Day. Talk to us about why Modi feels the need to make this visit now to Poland and to Ukraine. MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Christina, let's first talk about the Poland question in all of this, because these two nations actually have had diplomatic relationships that go back for decades, 70 years. In fact, we saw a statement just recently from the Prime Minister describing a vibrant Indian community in Poland. But this all goes back to this broader message, these broader concerns of geopolitical stability in the region.
 
We heard from the Prime Minister, the Indian Prime Minister today speaking upon his arrival in Warsaw. He talked very much about themes of diplomacy and dialogue, going on to say he's a big advocate for permanent peace in the region. So this really does set up the next step of this visit, this visit to Ukraine, which as you mentioned, has perhaps a bit of a fractured relationship, but certainly very important for all of Europe and especially to Poland, Christina, as these two nations, Poland and Ukraine do share a border.
 
So this visit by the Prime Minister from India will have some importance.
 
MACFARLANE: And on those ties, Marc, we know that their military trade diplomatic ties run deep with Russia when it comes to the India-Russia relationship. We saw Modi meeting with Vladimir Putin just last month. What is the feeling about how genuine India's push is for peace?
 
And what does Modi want to get out of this meeting with Zelenskyy in Ukraine?
 
STEWART: Right. This is a very complicated relationship between India and Ukraine. They have also had a long-term relationship dating back to the 90s. They have had trade, very strong trade in the past. 
 
In fact, Ukraine has trained, has been the backdrop for the training and education of many Indian doctors. Yet there is going to be the need for these difficult conversations, especially after this visit by Prime Minister Modi to Russia, where we saw that photo of Vladimir Putin and Modi embracing. It has been very problematic. 
 
The point of discussion is going to be around the fact that even though India has called for a ceasefire, it has not necessarily condemned this invasion, this move by Russia toward Ukraine. In addition, we have seen India really abstain from any of the resolutions that have come up in the United Nations.
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
So these are these difficult conversations that Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Narendra Modi will likely have. 
 
These two men have certainly talked before on the sidelines of the G7, but this was a personal invitation by President Zelenskyy to Narendra Modi. So the fact that this is happening in perhaps a more formal situation will allow these more difficult conversations to unfold. 
 
But as you rightly have alluded to before, Christina, this is complicated. These are allies yet find themselves in this predicament of true support on a broader scale.
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, and this is all important context, isn't it? As we watch these meetings play out. Marc Stewart, appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
All right, still to come, we're joined by the lead singer from Ukraine's biggest rock band. They have a new album, a new world tour, and a global -- goal rather, to buy new ambulances for troops on the frontlines. A music that makes a difference in a special report just ahead.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(Performance by Okean Elzy)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: That's Ukrainian band Okean Elzy and their brand new song, Lighthouse. It's the latest track from their first English language album set for release in October. The band's lead singer, Slava Vakarchuk, is one of Ukraine's most beloved musicians.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
(Performance by Slava Vakarchuk)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: Since the beginning of Russia's war on Ukraine, Vakarchuk has travelled across the country playing for the troops. He's also raised money and awareness for Kyiv's efforts. A portion of the proceeds from their upcoming 30th anniversary world tour will go towards buying ambulances for use on Ukraine's front lines.
 
Like the words from their song, Voices Are Rising, the band is determined to be a force for good, or sing till their heart makes a sound.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
OKEAN ELZY, UKRAINIAN BAND: Voices are rising, just let it all run down, tears that you're hiding, just let it all fall down, and I'll sing till my heart makes a sound.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: And Slava Vakarchuk joins me live now on the road, I believe, to the front lines. Slava, thank you for joining us.
 
SLAVA VAKARCHUK, LEAD VOCALIST, OKEAN ELZY: Thanks for having me. It's a great pleasure. Thank you.
 <br>[04:50:03]
 
MACFARLANE: Absolutely. We were just hearing those very moving songs from your new album there, Lighthouse, Voices Are Rising. I mean, they appear to be sort of anthems for your country, you know, ground down by the brutalities of this war, but still hoping for victory.
 
Talk to us about the messages you are trying to send with these new songs, and also why you've chosen to do them in English.
 
VAKARCHUK: First of all, usually, I think that this, I mean, the songs should have a lot of meanings, and it's not directly about the situation in Ukraine or just the message. Like, Lighthouse is a song of two loving people and the story behind them. But in the same way, the Lighthouse is a very powerful metaphor.
 
And I think that what we do now, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian music, arts, and everything can be a lighthouse for Ukraine now joining the world finally becoming part of the free world. I hope at last and forever. And so we're using this music to connect with the world.
 
And English is obvious because English is an international language understood everywhere and spoken everywhere in the world. And so we decided to spread the word around Ukraine, about Ukraine around the world and make it in the language most understood everywhere. So it's just our desire for a wider appeal for wider resonance.
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, and it's important because you're about to embark on this world tour where you want to try and raise funds to buy, I believe, 30 ambulances. Why have you chosen to give back in this way? And I suppose this is your contribution to the war effort in many respects.
 
VAKARCHUK: Look, everyone in Ukraine has to do something and actually is doing something to contribute and to make sure that we win this war, we stop this war in the conditions which Ukraine finds just. And we finally come back to so important and so awaited peace. And so we raise funds, our band, only our band, ourselves, we've raised around $4 or $5 million of funds starting from the beginning of the war.
 
And certainly these efforts that you're describing, these 30 ambulances, is part of this. So we need to help. We need to relieve lives of people. We need to help whoever needs it. We need to help all the soldiers. We need to help civilians to stand.
 
So we're doing the best we can with music, with funds we're raising, with our words, with everything, you know.
 
MACFARLANE: Yes. And as we speak, you are on the move, really, on the way to the front lines in eastern Ukraine. I have to ask you what the mood is like there in a week where we have seen Ukraine's incursion into Russian territory. What is the feeling at this time?
 
VAKARCHUK: There is never a black and white feeling. There are never black and white feelings in the war. It's usually both.
 
But because every day we're losing people. Every day Russians are destroying places in Ukraine, you know, places where people live, enterprises, everything. So it's very, very high price we are paying for these imperialistic ambitions of our crazy neighbor. And so we need to respond, respond in a proper way. And that's what we're doing now. And we certainly want every movement the Ukrainian military do now.
 
We want these moves to make the end of the war closer. So we want to stop this war, but we need to stop this war under conditions that Ukraine finds just. Because we didn't start the war and it's our land and we want to defend it.
 
And we do it with every possible means we can. So most soldiers I meet are, their morale is high. They're tired. That's true. Physically tired and sometimes mentally tired. But I haven't find, and I'm very honest with you, I haven't find a single person in the uniform who complained to me, I want to leave. 
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
And it's enough. I can bear it. I haven't find a single person. And I've been around for two and a half years and I've already given 272 performances on the front line. So I can tell you, Ukrainians are resilient. They're ready to fight as long as it's needed.
 
But certainly we need help of our friends. And that's why having an opportunity now to say how grateful we are to people in the U.S. and other parts of the world for helping us. And we just want you to help more and help as long as possible, because it's a long road.
 
But together we will, I think we will find this way, we'll come to the end.
 
MACFARLANE: The resilience Ukrainian people have shown is remarkable. And you, of course, are part of that effort, that resistance. We really appreciate you being with us and all the best as Ukrainians celebrate their Independence Day this weekend. Thank you, Slava.
 
VAKARCHUK: Thank you very much. It's important. I hope to see you in our American concerts in October.
 
MACFARLANE: I would love that. We'll hopefully see you there. All right.
 
VAKARCHUK: So you're invited. You're on the list.
 
MACFARLANE: Thank you so much. Look forward to it. Stay with us. We'll be right back after this short break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MACFARLANE: Sadly, that is all we have time for here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Christina Macfarlane in London. Stay tuned for CNN "THIS MORNING" up next after this quick break.
 <br>[05:00:00]