Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Israel Targets Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah in Beirut; IDF Carries Out Powerful Airstrikes in Beirut; Israeli Strikes on Lebanon Strain U.S. Relations; IDF Striking Buildings Used to Store Hezbollah Weapons; Israel Notified U.S. only Moments Before Strikes. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired September 27, 2024 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT:  -- this strategy of continuing to escalate this war with Hezbollah to the point where we are 
 
 now seeing this very real risk of things escalating much, much more significantly. So, far, we have seen Hezbollah fire some 65 rockets into 
 
 Northern Israel in the aftermath of that very significant strike in Beirut.
 
But if indeed this sort of escalation is strike was targeting Hussain Nasrallah, if he was injured, if he was killed, I think you are going to 
 
 expect to see a very, very significant response from Hezbollah. And even just the death toll alone from this strike, which is only just starting to 
 
 come in, but given that several buildings in that area appear to have been flattened, it will be very significant. That in and of itself, I think, 
 
 will likely prompt a very significant retaliatory response from Hezbollah. We will see how that all unfolds.
 
Up until now the escalations we've seen over the course of the last week and a half have prompted Hezbollah to go further than they have before, but 
 
 still far short of what Israeli officials have been telling me for months they expected to see from Hezbollah in the event of a significant 
 
 escalation. And that is not hundreds of rockets a day, but hundreds of rockets being fired simultaneously into Israel, perhaps thousands of 
 
 rockets a day, that we have not yet seen. Julia.
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  No, I'm just talking about the significance of the latest strikes that the IDF are now saying they're 
 
 carrying out as we speak, just in the hours following, as you said, the strikes that we saw on Hezbollah's headquarters.
 
I just went back over the transcript of when we heard just a couple of hours ago from Rear Admiral Daniel Hagari of the IDF, and he said, in the 
 
 heart of Deir in Beirut, Hezbollah constructed three buildings with designated underground spaces for storing strategic weapons with the 
 
 buildings above acting as a shield.
 
Jeremy, I'm just looking at the area that we're talking about. And again, they've talked about strategic strikes, but it does look to be a very 
 
 residential area in that sphere.
 
DIAMOND:  Yes, it certainly is a very residential area. The Dahieh, as it is known, the southern suburbs. of Beirut are quite densely populated area, 
 
 and that is likely what has -- what will make the previous strike that we saw targeting Hassan Nasrallah extremely deadly, and what also makes these 
 
 targeted strikes on several residential buildings, or at least the underground spaces beneath them very, very dangerous for the local 
 
 population as well.
 
Now, the Israeli military contends that this is, as they do in Gaza, for example, with Hamas, they will contend that it is Hezbollah's fault, 
 
 putting this population at risk by storing weapons in these facilities. We cannot, of course, independently verify these claims by the IDF regarding 
 
 these very significant weapons being stored inside or beneath these residential buildings.
 
What is clear, though, is that when the Israeli military does choose to strike at these targets, there is obviously a very significant risk to life 
 
 for the civilians in that area. And as you know, earlier in this conflict, these strikes on Beirut, there is a reason why they were so rare, partly 
 
 because of the risk of civilian casualties and partly because it was viewed as somewhat of a red line with Hezbollah, but what was once rare has now 
 
 become -- or is certainly becoming almost commonplace.
 
Prior to this last escalation, over the course of the last week and a half, we had only seen the Israeli military carry out two targeted strikes in the 
 
 Lebanese capital since the beginning of this conflict. And now, just tonight this would mark the fourth strike on the Lebanese capital, three 
 
 buildings tonight that the IDF underlines and then, of course, the previous strike targeting Hassan Nasrallah. And even over the course of the last 
 
 week, we have seen another handful of strikes.
 
So, we're in a very new and dangerous place as it relates to this conflict, and it appears to only be heading in that one more dangerous direction 
 
 rather than in the direction of a ceasefire, as it seemed it might be just a couple of days ago.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, a clear escalation. And, Jeremy, I think that's the next point to make at this moment is what we've now heard from the United States 
 
 and that they were unaware that this operation was carried out. They were only informed, it seems, as the operation, the earlier operation to strike 
 
 Hezbollah's headquarters was underway. What more can you tell us about that? Because one would also question whether they were given any kind of 
 
 greater heads up about these latest strikes.
 
DIAMOND:  Well, the United States is adamant that they did not have prior warning from the Israeli government before this operation commenced that 
 
 these strikes were going to be underway. I actually had a U.S. defense official reach out to me unprompted and highlight that fact, telling me 
 
 that they did not receive a warning prior. They only received a warning once this operation was underway.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
It appears that that was before the strikes themselves actually happened. But certainly, as Israeli jets were already in the air prepared to strike 
 
 at those targets. And that is, of course, very significant because it's not just about striking Beirut, it's not just about striking this underground 
 
 command center, but it's also about striking the head of Hezbollah at this very tense moment. That is a clear and extraordinary escalatory action by 
 
 the State of Israel. And certainly, the United States would have liked to be consulted before taking -- before Israel took such a step.
 
Now, Israeli officials will contend that the defense secretary, Yoav Gallant, got on the phone with his counterpart, Lloyd Austin, before the 
 
 strikes themselves actually happened. And they feel satisfied by that warning that was given to the United States. They would also contend that 
 
 Israel is a sovereign country doesn't need to inform the United States. But of course, we know that the United States is the single largest provider of 
 
 security assistance and weaponry to the Israeli military. And so, there is a certain expectation of being informed on strikes that carry a 
 
 particularly high significance, as certainly this one did.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Jeremy Diamond. Good to have you with us. Thank you so much for that. Let me bring in Nic Robertson now who's in Tel Aviv for us. Nic, 
 
 what we were just discussing with Jeremy was the fact that the Israelis are now carrying out further strikes in Lebanon. This time they say targeting 
 
 weaponry stores. They're also suggesting, I believe that they are patrolling Beirut Airport and won't allow planes to land carrying weapons 
 
 to that airport. What more detail can you give us on that?
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR:  Yes, this is a type of warning that I think gives us an idea of the confidence with which the IDF 
 
 or the Israeli Air Force, at least, feels that it can operate in the skies over Beirut. They say that they're patrolling in the skies, in the vicinity 
 
 near Beirut Airport. It's right on the coast there. So, they can be out over the sea to a degree to get perhaps a better sense of safety and 
 
 security.
 
But what the IDF spokesman said here is, you know, we applaud what the Lebanese government has been doing that has been different to what the 
 
 Syrian government has been doing. The Lebanese government, the IDF spokesman said, has not allowed Iran or others to ship in weapons through 
 
 civilian airports, and that's significant. And we know on multiple occasions that, well, Israel doesn't admit to striking these targets at 
 
 Syrian airports, but in the past it has hit Syrian airports where it believes that Iranian weapons are being shipped and smuggled in.
 
But what they're saying now is, if there is any attempt by Hezbollah and its supporters, Iran, to ship additional weapons in to support them as 
 
 Israel takes out these weapon storage facilities in Beirut and other areas, these weapons that they say that they're taking out tonight that are stored 
 
 in the southern suburbs are anti-ship weapons, that any way that the airports, the civilian airports become used to bring in more weapons, that 
 
 Israel will respond to. And the clear indication is that they will respond by bombing the airport.
 
What we've seen Israel do over the past couple of days as well is target the places where they believe transshipments of weapons have been coming in 
 
 from Syria, from Iran, into Syria, from Syria into Lebanon. They've been hitting these small border posts, some of them that haven't been 
 
 operational for only a few years. These small back roads along the border between Lebanon and Syria.
 
So, this is a very, very clear warning that whatever scenario Hezbollah feels that it is operating in now and inside of Lebanon that it shouldn't 
 
 feel and its supporters, like Iran, shouldn't feel that they can then bring weapons in.
 
We know that the Iranian president has called what's happened in in Beirut today a war crime. We know that the Iranian ambassador in Beirut -- 
 
 appropriate punishment or punishment appropriately. So, it's clear that Iran is looking at this with -- and Ben -- and rather Jeremy was talking 
 
 about this as well, how Iran may decide to support Hezbollah going forward. And Israel has drawn a red line, and that is do not ship weapons in through 
 
 the airports.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I just want to draw attention of our viewers, Nic, to what we're seeing now. We're showing you live pictures of Beirut, Lebanon. It's 
 
 just past 1:00 a.m. in the morning there. We can see, if you look on the right-hand side of your screen, smoke appearing. We're just showing clear 
 
 explosions. You can hear the noises of them as the Israeli military has confirmed it is, as we've been discussing, striking what they say are 
 
 weapons storage facilities in the south of the nation.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
Nic, come back to what you were saying here and we'll continue to watch to see if we see any more explosions of those strikes continuing to hit. How 
 
 does Hezbollah, how does Iran respond to what you're saying is a message from the Israelis that they are in control? It seems that the skies above 
 
 the Beirut Airport at this stage, that they're saying you're not going to bring any further firepower to support Hezbollah at this moment. It is an 
 
 incredibly delicate moment.
 
ROBERTSON:  It is. And just sort of concurrent with the images that we have there from the center of Beirut and the aftermath of those strikes. We're 
 
 obviously on the coast here in Tel Aviv, 100 miles, perhaps a bit more away from Beirut. Jets fly pretty fast. I just heard a couple of -- the roar of 
 
 a couple of jet engines going past us here. It's not clear if these were the jets involved in that operation, but there are a lot of fighter jets in 
 
 the sky tonight going up and down the coastline here.
 
So, I think how does Hezbollah respond? That's the big question. And also, part of it is when do they respond? Because if they respond immediately and 
 
 they have fired more missiles into the upper Galilee, lower Galilee, middle Galilee, western Galilee areas this evening in the north of Israel, indeed, 
 
 there was a direct hit on the town, in Safed. There was -- the house was on fire. Another house in Safed was hit by falling shrapnel quite badly 
 
 damaged. I think there was one injury reported there from shrapnel as well.
 
So, there's been a limited response, you could call it perhaps a response, to what's happened tonight, this massive targeting that's going on in 
 
 Beirut. But the concern will be that Hezbollah will decide to launch an attack of a scale that hasn't been witnessed so far. Just a couple of 
 
 mornings ago, we were woken up by sirens just at dawn here in Tel Aviv. And that was because Hezbollah had decided to fire a ballistic missile towards 
 
 Tel Aviv. They said that they were targeting the intelligence headquarters, the Mossad headquarters that are near to Tel Aviv. The missile was 
 
 intercepted, nobody was hurt, nobody was harmed.
 
The thinking is that Hezbollah might try to mount a much more complex operation of many missiles like that to try to overwhelm the protective 
 
 defensive missile systems here. And one analysis is, the longer that it takes Hezbollah to respond means the more complex and sophisticated that 
 
 response may be.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Nic, good to have you with us. Thank you for your perspective. Nic Robertson there. Now, our Jomana Karadsheh joins us now from Beirut. 
 
 Jomana, as Nic was saying there, we know air force planes are now patrolling the area around Beirut Airport. We've also been showing our 
 
 viewers the sounds, the images of explosions in Beirut. What are you seeing and what are you hearing at this moment?
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, you know, Julia, in the last few minutes or so, our team here -- I was actually live on our sister 
 
 network, CNN U.S., and I did not see what was going on behind me, but some of our colleagues here did see a flash in the distance and a distant blast 
 
 that was heard.
 
And now, we are seeing -- of course, it's really dark out there, as you can see, but our camera is capturing smoke rising in the distance from Beirut's 
 
 southern suburbs. And earlier as well, we did hear a distant blast just coming as the Israeli military saying that is carrying out these -- what it 
 
 describes as these precise and targeted strikes in Beirut.
 
Just under two hours ago, the Israeli military's Arabic language spokesman posted on X. Evacuation order is very similar to those that we have seen in 
 
 the past 11 months or so in Gaza to the residents of several areas in the southern suburbs. Three buildings that he pointed out, saying that those 
 
 were IDF targets, that residents and people in those buildings and 500- meter radius around these buildings must evacuate because the IDF is going to be striking.
 
And we have heard as well from the Israeli military after that saying that they were going after Hezbollah missiles that they say are stored 
 
 underneath these buildings. And, you know, you can imagine the fear and panic that that has caused for many people when we're talking about one of 
 
 the most densely populated areas of this country.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
And this coming just a few hours after those massive strikes that we had at about 6:00 p.m. local time on Beirut's southern suburbs. You know, 
 
 colleagues here who have -- know this country well, who have covered it say that these were the biggest strikes they have seen in Beirut, at least 
 
 since the 2006 Israel-Hezbollah war. And what we understand from an Israeli senior official is that the target of that strike was Hezbollah's leader, 
 
 Hassan Nasrallah.
 
Now, the Israeli military has not officially said that he was the target, but, Julia, they say that they were targeting a -- the main headquarters of 
 
 Hezbollah. And if you look at those images of the aftermath of that strike and the kind of munitions that were used in those strikes, according to 
 
 some analysis of the crater and the aftermath, it is believed that 2,000- pound bombs were used. The Lebanese state news agency saying at least six buildings were reduced to rubble and the death toll from those strikes in 
 
 the last few minutes, we've heard from the health ministry saying that at least six people were killed and 91 others were injured, but they are 
 
 saying that death toll is not final.
 
And if you look at those images and, you know, we were here and we heard those blasts and I can tell you it's one of the biggest explosions I have 
 
 ever witnessed, the death toll is very likely to rise. The big question right now is, was Hassan Nasrallah indeed there? What is -- was he there? 
 
 Was he killed? Was he injured? Israeli military saying that they are conducting a post-strike assessment and that it might take some time.
 
Hezbollah has not said anything since those strikes. We have not had any official statements from Hezbollah. And our colleagues here have been 
 
 trying to reach their Hezbollah contacts, but we have not had any luck getting any information from them. But I can tell you the city in this 
 
 whole country very much on edge right now.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Jomana, I was going to ask you that point, obviously, on the latest strikes what the IDF was saying. And as you said, they posted 
 
 that message in Arabic on X to tell people to evacuate those locations that residents must move as far away from those buildings as possible.
 
I know it's very difficult and I'm sure information is very scarce. Do we have any sense of whether people were able to evacuate in time and how 
 
 quickly that was done? Because it seems the strikes followed within a couple of hours as we're watching now.
 
KARADSHEH:  I mean, that is the big question right now. I mean, the posts from the Israeli military spokesman on X was picked up by a lot of local 
 
 media here. People knew about it, but did people leave in time? We had some reports that people began leaving.
 
And I mean, if you also look back at what's been happening over the past few days, this is -- you know, you've had several strikes on the southern 
 
 suburbs of Beirut, where Hezbollah is known to have a presence. So, you already had a lot of people leaving. But when it comes to these specific 
 
 locations, it's very hard for us to tell right now. But we are continuing to try and get a clearer picture if people were able to evacuate.
 
But I can tell you, for the past few days, speaking to people here, speaking to officials as well, they have been saying that they are so 
 
 worried about this -- about their country turning into another Gaza. You know what some have described as the Gazification of Lebanon. And when you 
 
 see these sort of evacuation orders starting to come in. this is really terrifying for people because it is exactly what they have been fearing the 
 
 most that they will be seeing repeats of what has been happening.
 
And, you know, keep in mind, Julia, it has been escalation after escalation. One, you know, dangerous moment after dangerous moment that 
 
 this country has faced over the past 10 days now or so, but what they are going through right now, if Hassan Nasrallah was indeed in that building, 
 
 if he was targeted, I mean, this -- you can't really overstate what a dangerous moment this is for Lebanon and for the entire region.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Certainly, and we'll wait for more information and news on that. As you say, at this moment, it's just speculation. But, Jomana, your 
 
 words do resonate. I spoke to the U.N. security general -- secretary general earlier in January, and he said his biggest fear was that Gaza was 
 
 mapped to Lebanon, and what we're certainly sparks some further concern about that fear.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
Good to have you with us. Thank you so much. Stay safe tonight. Jomana Karadsheh there. You are watching live pictures over the south of Beirut, 
 
 Lebanon. You can see the smoke rising, further strikes from the IDF saying that they were targeting Hezbollah weapons storage facilities tonight. They 
 
 asked residents around the surrounding areas to leave in a warning in the hours before. We will continue to bring you further developing news as this 
 
 story continues.
 
For now, stay with CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And our top story this hour, Israel carrying out new airstrikes in Beirut, targeting buildings allegedly 
 
 storing Hezbollah missiles. Israel saying earlier today it struck Hezbollah's central headquarters. The group's leader, Hassan Nasrallah, was 
 
 the target, according to one Israeli official. His fate at this hour, unclear. However, the Lebanese government saying today's strikes killed at 
 
 least six people, wounding dozens of others. Hezbollah already responding with its own salvo into Northern Israel.
 
Israel waited until the last possible moment to tell the United States about that massive strike earlier in the day. Word didn't reach Washington 
 
 until Israeli planes were in the air. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin confirmed that he was on the phone at the time with his Israeli 
 
 counterpart. He urged a de-escalation between Israel and Hezbollah.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE:  What I will say is that you've heard me say a number of times that an all-out war should be avoided. 
 
 Diplomacy continues to be the best way forward, and it's the fastest way to let displaced Israeli and Lebanese citizens return to their homes on both 
 
 sides of the border.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  The U.S. so far unable to influence Israel. We're told that White House officials were furious that Benjamin Netanyahu had dismissed a 
 
 ceasefire proposal on Thursday. Alex Marquardt joins us now. Alex, the U.S. officials clearly frustrated at what appears to be a deep lack of notice 
 
 about the strike earlier on the Hezbollah headquarters. We don't know if they knew, and perhaps you can inform us whether they were aware of these 
 
 latest strikes that have taken place within the last hour.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Julia, a lot of frustration this week in Washington and among the U.S. officials up 
 
 here in New York for the U.N. General Assembly. First, after their ceasefire plan that they put out on Wednesday night was essentially 
 
 dismissed out of hand by the Israeli prime minister. And then, today, when they saw the size of this strike that could have such massive 
 
 ramifications.
 
President Joe Biden very quickly saying that the U.S. had no role in this, had no advanced warning. You noted Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin saying 
 
 that he only found out once the operation was well underway.
 
We've been trying to figure out how it was that the White House put this plan on the table for 21 days of pause only for a few hours later, Prime 
 
 Minister Netanyahu to come out and say, well, we're going to keep fighting with full force? I'm told by a senior Israeli official tonight that it was 
 
 an honest misunderstanding. Essentially that the Israelis thought that there was going to be a lot more of a process. There were a lot more 
 
 questions to answer while the U.S. wanted to put this into place imminently.
 
So, what we're hearing tonight from U.S. officials is that diplomacy is still the best way out. Clearly, Israel thinks the military pressure is 
 
 what is going to get Hezbollah to back down.
 
A couple other interesting notes from a senior Israeli official who spoke with reporters earlier today, on the question of targeting Nasrallah 
 
 directly, this person said that it was a very tough call and that it could really pivot this conflict because he is someone who is irreplaceable.
 
Now, if Nasrallah was indeed killed, he would be the latest on a long list of Hezbollah commanders who have been killed recently by Israel. More than 
 
 half, we're told, and perhaps as high as 80 percent. So, of course, that will very much play into the Hezbollah response that will likely come soon.
 
And last thing, Julia, given the stakes here, given the seriousness, given the potential ramifications from here, Prime Minister Netanyahu is cutting 
 
 his trip to New York short. He is heading back tonight to get back to manage, really, these two conflicts on both the southern and northern parts 
 
 of Israel. It is rare, we should note, that the prime minister travels on the Shabbat, which, of course, starts at sundown on Friday. So, that really 
 
 does highlight the seriousness of all this. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, certainly extenuating circumstances. Alex, good to have you with us. Alex Marquardt there.
 
Now, Hassan Nasrallah has long been Hezbollah's most important figure. He helped organize a group of fighters in 1982 to resist Israeli occupation. 
 
 That group then evolved into Hezbollah. He became the group's secretary general 10 years later after Israel killed his mentor.
 
In 2006, under Nasrallah's watch, Hezbollah carried out a cross-border raid on IDF forces, and that attack sparked a 34-day conflict. For more on all 
 
 of this, retired U.S. Army General Wesley Clark joins us. He's also a former NATO Supreme Allied Commander. General Clark, good to have you with 
 
 us.
 
We don't know yet the fate of Hassan Nasrallah. How significant would it be if this strike did indeed result in his death?
 
GEN. WESLEY CLARK (RET.), FORMER NATO SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER:  I think it's significant. And it will certainly impact the ability of Hezbollah to 
 
 respond both diplomatically and militarily.
 
But this comes on top of the essential decapitation of what's going on in Hezbollah between the exploding pagers, the cell phones, the numerous 
 
 strikes, and then this, it certainly accounts for the difficulty that Hezbollah must be having in terms of a coordinated response to Israel.
 
CHATTERLEY:  What are they trying to achieve, the Israelis, with Hezbollah at this moment? It's a far bigger, better organized, at least until this 
 
 moment, organization than Hamas. What do you see as the ambition? To take out the leadership?
 
CLARK:  I think the stated ambition is to get Hezbollah to move back 10 miles in accordance with decisions that were made in 2006. And Hezbollah 
 
 has never followed through on those decisions. But the -- I think the point of it is to put pressure on, to put punishment on until Hezbollah moves 
 
 back and to have the threat of the ground incursion to finish the job if Hezbollah doesn't move back.
 
If Israel goes in on the ground, it's going to be difficult. But on the other hand, they've got tunnels and other things that -- and Israel has 
 
 worked this in Gaza. Israel technology for fighting in tunnels has been improved. And so, they feel like they can do much more against Hezbollah 
 
 now than the effort in 2006.
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
They also feel like this is a sort of do it or not do it moment because Iran's very close to a nuclear weapon. If they don't have it already. And 
 
 Iran is weak economically, doesn't want to fight back, would like to preserve its frontline defense of Hezbollah, but doesn't want to risk 
 
 everything that the regime has in Iran over this.
 
And so, they feel like it's an advantageous strategic time to move against Hezbollah, and they can't tolerate having these rocket -- continuous rocket 
 
 attacks into Israel that are really disrupting the entire northern area of Israel. They can't live with that.
 
CHATTERLEY:  General Clark, does the United States understand the importance of this moment and the decision to target Nasrallah, 
 
 specifically, if indeed he was there, as the Israelis believe he was, and it was worth it to do that without telling the United States or others, we 
 
 presume, in the International Community and put at risk the proposed 21-day ceasefire between Lebanon and Israel?
 
CLARK:  The U.S. policy has been to try to do everything possible to avoid this escalation. So, the United States was very careful in the Red Sea 
 
 attacks against the Houthis not to escalate throughout the response against the Axis of Resistance. The United States said we don't want to escalate, 
 
 and they've encouraged Israel not to escalate.
 
So, I think there's a clear divergence in the U.S. perspective on this and the Israeli perspective. And the U.S. perspective is very understandable. 
 
 We don't know what the consequences of this fight could be. It has global implications, economically, it has implications on other nations in the 
 
 region if it escalates. And so, it's a very natural thing that the United States doesn't want this to escalate. But that's a different perspective 
 
 than what Israel must have at this time.
 
CHATTERLEY:  General Clark, I have about one minute left. How do you expect Hezbollah and, by definition, Iran, to respond to this?
 
CLARK:  I think Iran is not going to respond. I think Hezbollah is going to have a very uncoordinated but eventual response. And eventually, will be 
 
 forced out of its positions and move back. The Israelis have the momentum, they have the combat power there to inflict serious damage on Hezbollah, 
 
 and if it stays and persists, it's going to be catastrophically weakened.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And the presumption then is the Israelis consider that a win. General Clark, great to get your insights, sir. Thank you. We'll continue 
 
 our breaking news coverage of Israeli airstrikes on Beirut after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back. The Israeli military has been carrying out new airstrikes in Southern Beirut, where it's now early Saturday morning. The 
 
 Israel Defense Forces saying it's targeting buildings storing Hezbollah missiles. This follows a massive airstrike on Hezbollah headquarters in 
 
 Beirut earlier Friday.
 
The group's leader, Hassan Nasrallah, was the target, according to one Israeli source. And while there's no word yet on his fate, a former senior 
 
 Israeli official telling CNN that Israel would not have attacked with such scope and power if it were not sure with a high degree of certainty that 
 
 Nasrallah was there at the time.
 
All this after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave a speech to the United Nations, vowing to continue strikes in Gaza and Lebanon. His 
 
 office releasing this picture earlier showing Netanyahu approving Friday's strike on Hezbollah headquarters while he was in New York.
 
Ben Wedeman is in Beirut in the early hours of the morning there for us. Ben, and we continue to watch further strikes and explosions taking place. 
 
 Just describe what you're seeing and hearing.
 
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Julia, within the last three to four minutes, we've seen another series of strikes. These 
 
 are not the massive strikes we saw at 6:00 p.m. local time on the southern suburbs, which left, we don't know how many people dead at this point. 
 
 These are smaller, targeted strikes. But these strikes just come a few hours after the Israeli spokesman, the Arabic spokesman on Twitter, or X, 
 
 put out warnings to the residents of Beirut to stay away from three buildings in two separate neighborhoods, telling people to stay -- to leave 
 
 those buildings if they're in them and to stay at least 500 meters away.
 
Keep in mind that this is a very densely populated part of Beirut. And of course, the local media had circulated those warnings far and wide. So, 
 
 what we saw and what we've been seeing is that thousands of people have been streaming out of those southern suburbs of Beirut and on what's up 
 
 groups, local WhatsApp groups, local WhatsApp groups, people are appealing for somewhere to stay and their notices about schools that are being open.
 
But certainly, what we're seeing is a level of fear from the residents of the southern part of Beirut. As it appears, Israel is ramping up its air 
 
 campaign against Hezbollah. Now, we understand that the death toll from that earlier massive blast in which -- rather bombing, in which it appears 
 
 Israel used 2,000-pound bombs bunker busters to flatten six buildings in the southern suburbs. The Ministry of Health is saying at this point that 
 
 at least six people were killed, more than 90 injured. Although, we do expect those numbers to rise given the level of destruction that happened 
 
 there.
 
Now, as a result of the skyrocketing tensions here in Beirut, the United Kingdom has announced that it is putting on extra flights to help British 
 
 nationals evacuate. And the United States -- rather, the Lebanese army has reinforced its security around the American embassy.
 
And an important point needs to be made here is that it's not lost on Hezbollah, nor is it lost on the population at large here in Lebanon that 
 
 it's the United States that's providing these weapons to Israel, even though American officials are coming out and saying we didn't know any -- 
 
 we got no advance warning of this, but certainly, the fear is that as a result of the high death toll and perhaps the assassination of Hassan 
 
 Nasrallah that there will be a backlash against American interests here in Lebanon.
 
Now, I have been trying to get through to Hezbollah contacts all evening to find out the fate of the leader of Hezbollah, until now, they do not 
 
 respond to messages or phone calls. So, we're still waiting for some sort of confirmation for that, Julia.
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
Ben, thank you so much for that. And if and when you hear from them, you'll let us know, I'm sure. For now, stay safe. Good to have you. Ben Wedeman, 
 
 reporting there. Now, sources say Israel notified the United States only moments before the strikes earlier today.
 
U.S. officials say the lack of notice adds to frustrations, after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu dismissed a ceasefire proposal between 
 
 Israel and Hezbollah on Thursday. Calls for a ceasefire are being heard elsewhere on the global stage. You're looking at a protest in Spain where 
 
 around 6,000 people marched, calling for a pause in fighting in both Lebanon and Gaza.
 
And let's take a look, too, at the wider implications of this attack. Sherzada Khan is the country director in Lebanon for the Aid and 
 
 Humanitarian Agency Concern Worldwide. And he joins us now from Beirut. Sir, good to have you with us. Just start by describing what it's been like 
 
 in Beirut for the last 12 hours or so.
 
SHERZADA KHAN, COUNTRY DIRECTOR IN LEBANON, CONCERN WORLDWIDE:  Thank you for having me. As you know, the situation in Beirut is extremely tense, 
 
 particularly with the blast that happened in this evening, which shook the whole capital. I was just about to get on a call coming from my office when 
 
 the blast occurred, and the explosion was massive and it echoed throughout the capital. Immediately activated, you know, our emergency safety 
 
 protocols just to check on how our staff, our teams and their families are doing.
 
So, thankfully, everyone is safe. But the blast created sheer panic, silence were wailing and streets were filled with chaos right in my 
 
 neighborhood. I mean, we heard the sounds of that. We are still waiting for official reports on casualties. But the sheer terror of the moment is 
 
 something none of us could forget.
 
So, yes, it's very tense. It's very chaotic on the roads, in the streets, in the neighborhoods. And there are fears that there are going to be more 
 
 attacks in the following -- are following. So, the overall situation in Lebanon is -- as you might be following, is incredibly stressful for the 
 
 Lebanese communities as well as for the Syrian community who are living here.
 
Many people here, especially the younger generation, I would say, have never experienced a crisis of this scale. The strikes and the ensuing 
 
 displacement have been overwhelming, as we speak, with over 200,000 people displaced. The families are living in some makeshift shelters, some with 
 
 relatives in extremely poor, dire conditions. Women, children, the elderly, the people with disabilities are disproportionately facing the challenges 
 
 as a result of the crisis.
 
So, tragically, this is not the first time the Lebanese people and the communities here are facing such devastation. It has been like a crisis 
 
 after a crisis, and it is wearing down their resilience how much more they can endure before it becomes too much. So, nobody knows. Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Sherzada, we're just showing live pictures over the south of Beirut at this moment and we've just seen another explosion take place. 
 
 We're showing our viewers the smoke rising from those explosions over the horizon too. Did you just hear that? Did you feel that? Yes, you can feel 
 
 that.
 
KHAN:  Yes, I did. I did hear it in the evening. I did. I'm hearing it now. I can see it from my window as well. So, I'm getting -- I'm receiving, you 
 
 know, messages from some of the groups. So, Beirut is awake. I mean, the people here, the communities here, they are not sleeping.
 
What I see happening now, I think it's heartbreaking. Every day brings new strikes. It's almost like the trend for the last week or so. And the 
 
 situation is spiraling. It's getting out of control, becoming more devastating by every passing hour.
 
The fear and uncertainty are overwhelming. None of us know what tomorrow holds. It's the fear of the unknown, you know, that is truly, truly 
 
 terrifying and worrying for the people, particularly who are in Beirut, the people in the southern areas who are displaced and now they are on the move 
 
 towards the northern area.
 
So, on one side they are facing -- you know, the half of Lebanon is facing the conflict, displacement and the remaining of the northern part, they are 
 
 grappling, you know, how to host, how to accommodate the IDPs. So, it is a chaotic situation.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Sherzada, we just showed another explosion again that just took place there. As you've been mentioning, I know you work with the 
 
 United Nations, you provide emergency shelter, cash, first aid, and psychological support for people that are displaced. And as you were 
 
 saying, you've seen a dramatic displacement of people as a result of the violence that we've seen in Lebanon, even just over the past week.
 
For people that are watching, help us understand how people there are feeling and why a ceasefire that's been proposed by the United States is 
 
 vitally important?
 
KHAN:  So, I'm working with concern and then we do collaborate and work with U.N. agencies as well. For example, UNHCR and others. I mean, this 
 
 war, this is the least thing -- you know, the last thing the Lebanese population, the Lebanese communities would want.
 
I mean, the -- they need peace. They need stability. Lebanon, as you know, has been grappling, you know, with so many challenges already in terms of, 
 
 you know, political, economic, and governance and other challenges. So, they cannot afford. You know, the children in this country should not be in 
 
 a situation as they are. They need to be in school.
 
This is the start of, you know, their academic year, September and October, and the schools are closed. Colleges are closed. You are (INAUDIBLE) just 
 
 to host, you know, displaced communities. So, the children need to be in school. The business community needs to be, you know, doing their own 
 
 businesses. The people should be working on building their lives and, you know, livelihoods. But this conflict and this war is making it difficult 
 
 for them.
 
Concern Worldwide, we are on the ground, already started supporting the displaced families. We are providing shelter, safe housing, protection, 
 
 emergency case assessment, but then the needs are immense. The gaps are huge. And while we are ready to scale up our efforts, I mean, without 
 
 immediate and increased support, it's becoming incredibly difficult to reach everyone in desperate need.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I understand.
 
KHAN:  The families -- 
 
CHATTERLEY:  I know. And it's underfunded for 2024 as well, the situation, the humanitarian appeal, I know.
 
KHAN:  Absolutely.
 
CHATTERLEY:  So, we once again raised that point.
 
KHAN:  Absolutely, yes.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Sherzada, thank you so much. Stay safe tonight. We're thinking of you and everybody there. Thank you so much for your time.
 
All right. Stay with us. We'll have much more on the breaking news from Lebanon. You're watching CNN.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back and breaking news into CNN regarding the U.S. stance on events in Lebanon. President Joe Biden has been briefed, quote, 
 
 "several times today" by his national security team following that series of Israeli strikes targeting Hezbollah in Beirut. And Lebanon official 
 
 telling reporters that are traveling with Biden in Delaware earlier on Friday.
 
Just to give you a sense too, the official said that the president has, quote, "directed the Pentagon to assess and adjust as necessary U.S. force 
 
 posture in the region to enhance deterrence, ensure force protection, and support the full range of U.S. objectives. He's also directed embassies in 
 
 the region to take all protective measures as appropriate." And we'll continue to receive regular updates. Any further headlines from the White 
 
 House or the State Department, we will bring them to you.
 
For now, the Israeli military says it's been striking buildings in Beirut, allegedly used to store Hezbollah missiles. These are live images from 
 
 Beirut. We've been showing you them all hour, where we just saw another major explosion in the past few minutes.
 
Joining us now, Firas Maksad, he's the senior fellow at the Middle East Institute. Sir, good to have you with us. We talked a couple of days ago 
 
 after the walkie-talkie and phone explosions. Fast forward to today, what do you make of the Israeli attacks, both on Hezbollah HQ and, of course, 
 
 these strikes on alleged weapons facilities too?
 
FIRAS MAKSAD, SENIOR FELLOW, MIDDLE EAST INSTITUTE:  Julia, it's been an exceptional 10 days. Yes, we last spoke when it came to the attack, the 
 
 Israeli attack using the pagers, then the walkie-talkies, then essentially, decapitation of Hezbollah's -- most of Hezbollah's military leadership 
 
 absent one commander, Ali Karaki. And then, today, these exceptional strikes in the heart of the southern suburbs of Beirut targeted at 
 
 Hezbollah's headquarters with Hassan Nasrallah, the iconic leader of Hezbollah, presumably being the target and presumed dead by many at this 
 
 point.
 
So, there are days when the hinge of history turns. And this very much is one of those days, whether, in fact, Hassan Nasrallah is dead or alive, it 
 
 is almost indifferent, I don't want to say irrelevant, because the scope and scale of the Israeli attack means that for those of us who've been 
 
 watching the conflict now, for the better part of a year, that threshold from what has largely been a border conflict into a full-out war, that 
 
 threshold has been crossed today.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And very quickly, as you said, that threshold is crossed, has been crossed. What do you expect to take place now? The United States 
 
 caught off guard, Iran, Hezbollah's response. What comes next?
 
MAKSAD:  Well, clearly, from the reporting coming in about President Biden being briefed and commanding, telling the Pentagon to take all 
 
 precautionary measure to reinforce deterrence (INAUDIBLE), reinforce deterrence vis-a-vis Iran, but also to safeguard U.S. interests and 
 
 embassies. Clearly, here, President Biden is expecting a reaction. And that's something that his administration has been working hard to prevent, 
 
 to contain this conflict and prevent contagion.
 
There are early reports that it wasn't only Hassan Nasrallah that was in that bunker, but that senior Iranian military officials, the IRGC, the 
 
 commander in charge for Lebanon and Syria might have also been killed as a result of these strikes.
 
So, in the days ahead, we're looking at a scenario where it's going to be increasingly difficult for Iran and/or many of its regional proxies in 
 
 Syria, in Yemen, in Iraq, it's going to be increasingly difficult for them not to get involved.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, we're closer to an escalation than diplomacy towards a ceasefire as a result of the last 12 hours. Firas, we'll talk again. Thank 
 
 you for your time. And my apologies. It was brief.
 
Stay with us. We'll be back after this.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  At this hour, the Israeli military has been striking buildings in Beirut, allegedly used to store Hezbollah missiles. These are the latest 
 
 images where we've seen a major explosion in the south of Beirut in the past few minutes. It comes after a major Israeli airstrike on the Lebanese 
 
 capital, which Israel says targeted Hezbollah's leader. It's unclear whether Hassan Nasrallah was killed in those attacks.
 
The Lebanese health ministry says at least six people were killed and more than 90 injured. Iran's president says the Israeli assault is a, quote, 
 
 "war crime in which the U.S. is complicit," as Tehran vows retaliation.
 
Stay with us on CNN. More to come.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END