Headline: Isa Soares Tonight
Sub-headline: Blinken In Israel Amid Push For A Ceasefire And Hostage Deal; Far- Right Parties Make Gains In EU Parliament Elections; Closing Arguments Begin In Hunter Biden's Gun Trial; Soon: UNSC Vote On Gaza Ceasefire Plan; Netanyahu Under Pressure After Gantz Quits War Cabinet; N. Korea Sends More Bags Of Trash Floating Towards S. Korea. 2-3p ET

Aired June 10, 2024 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:00:35] 
 
ZAIN ASHER, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: All right, a very warm welcome to all of you, I'm Zain Asher in for my colleague, Isa Soares. Tonight, U.S. 
 
 Secretary of State Antony Blinken begins his high-level talks in Israel amid a diplomatic push for a ceasefire and hostage deal. More on that and 
 
 the latest on the hostage rescue as well.   
 
Then, a night of drama in Europe as the far-right makes significant gains in the European parliamentary elections. And French President Emmanuel 
 
 Macron calls for a snap election. Plus, closing arguments begin in Hunter Biden's gun trial, leaving the fate of the president's son in the hands of 
 
 12 jurors. That and much more ahead.   
 
All right, just days after just a dramatic Israeli operation rescued four hostages in Gaza, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is bringing a 
 
 message to the region the best way to bring all remaining hostages back home is through a ceasefire proposal that is on the table now. Blinken has 
 
 just wrapped up a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Tel Aviv after an earlier stop in Egypt. 
 
He's urging Hamas to accept the ceasefire plan outlined by the U.S. President. Blinken says Israel has already accepted it, although, we have 
 
 not heard that from the government in Israel itself. Also, today, we're learning new details about that raid that freed four hostages who had spent 
 
 eight months in captivity. 
 
Joyous and really emotional family reunions are dominating the airwaves right now in Israel, but for Palestinians, the operation in a crowded 
 
 refugee camp marked one of the deadliest days of the war so far. Gaza officials say that more than 270 people were killed including children, 
 
 Israel says the number is actually below 100. 
 
CNN right now is unable to verify the casualty figures. Let's get more now from our Paula Hancocks and Kylie Atwood, they're both in Tel Aviv tonight. 
 
 Paula, let me begin with you because we actually just heard from the doctor who is treating the four hostages in Gaza who were released over the 
 
 weekend. 
 
What is he saying about the level of physical and psychological and essentially emotional abuse as well that these released hostages 
 
 experienced over the past eight months? 
 
PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hey, Zain, we just spoke to Dr. Itai Pessach, he is the doctor in charge of the medical team that's 
 
 looking after these four hostages. And he says that from what they have told him so far, it is clear that they were beaten while in captivity in 
 
 central Gaza. 
 
He says that they underwent hourly, daily abuse, physical, mental and other types, saying it was beyond comprehension. He also said that despite the 
 
 fact that outwardly, they looked as though they are in good health, they are all malnourished. He says that sometimes there was not food, other 
 
 times there was.
 
But the lack of protein, the lack of movement means that their muscles are extremely wasted, and also they have some significant health concerns going 
 
 forward. He also said the psychological damage done to these four hostages compared to those that were released back in November, he also was treating 
 
 them, they are far more psychologically damaged now because they have had so much more significant time in captivity. 
 
But they are now really rescued, they have been rescued by Israeli forces. So, let's look back at that operation. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 
 
HANCOCKS (voice-over): A complex mission that achieved its objectives according to Israel. Extensive airpower, hundreds of personnel, weeks of 
 
 Intelligence gathering and training to rescue four Israeli hostages held by Hamas in two residential buildings in central Gaza. This, the moment IDF 
 
 headquarters learn the hostages have been rescued.
 
For those on the ground, it was the deadliest day in six months according to Gaza officials, capturing the moment of impact of Israeli airstrikes -- 
 
(GUNFIRE) 
 <br>[14:05:00] 
 
HANCOCKS: Sustained gunfire followed the IDF, says there were fierce gun battles with Hamas fighters throughout the operation, but did not provide 
 
 evidence of this claim. Then a constant stream of dead and injured arrive at two nearby hospitals, the Al-Aqsa Martyr Hospital overwhelmed by the 
 
 sheer number of trauma cases.
 
The breakdown of fighters versus civilians is unknown, but women and children are seen in every corner of this hospital. Gaza officials and 
 
 hospital directors say more than 270 were killed, hundreds more injured, sparking cries of a massacre from some countries including the EU's top 
 
 diplomat. 
 
Israel claims less than 100 died, blaming Hamas for the shockingly high death toll, CNN cannot independently verify either side's figures.   
 
PETER LERNER, SPOKESPERSON, IDF: Hamas intentionally puts the hostages in houses of civilians with the house owners in the same houses at the same 
 
 time. 
 
HANCOCKS: As families of those rescued celebrate, calls for a ceasefire and hostage deal become louder. Even families of those rescued Saturday are not 
 
 calling for more of these missions. 
 
ORIT MEIR, MOTHER OF RESCUED HOSTAGE: There are still 120 hostages in Gaza and we want a deal now!   
 
HANCOCKS: Seven living hostages rescued in three missions in the past eight months, compared to more than 100 released during a one-week ceasefire last 
 
 November. The United States and others say a hostage deal is the only solution.   
 
JAKE SULLIVAN, U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: The best way to get all of the hostages home and to protect Palestinian civilians is to end this war. 
 
 And the best way to end this war is for Hamas to say yes to the deal President Biden announced and that Israel has accepted. 
 
HANCOCKS: As residents still with the devastation left behind in Nuseirat. Survivors struggle to understand what happened. "I am 60 years old", this 
 
 man says, "and have never experienced anything like this, a barrage of heavy gunfire, artillery, missiles, rockets. It was something unimaginable 
 
 to the human mind."
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) 
 
HANCOCKS: And while misery continues to flourish in Gaza, the hopes of a ceasefire any time soon still remain elusive. Zain?   
 
ASHER: All right, Paula Hancocks, do stand by, Kylie, let me bring you in because, yes, I mean, the hopes of any kind of ceasefire is elusive at this 
 
 point in time, but that is a priority for Blinken now that he's in the region. Obviously, he's in Israel right now, but prior to Israel, he was in 
 
 Egypt, he's going to be going to Qatar. 
 
And part of his job is really to essentially put pressure on Egyptian officials, on Qatari officials, to make sure that they put pressure on 
 
 Hamas to accept the deal that's currently on the table. Take us through it.
 
KYLIE ATWOOD, CNN U.S. SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: That's exactly right. He's trying to get everyone to a yes here, which is an incredibly challenging 
 
 task, Zain. He just wrapped up about a two-hour meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, we're just getting the readout of that meeting from the 
 
 spokesperson, Matt  Miller, where he said that Blinken urged Netanyahu, reminded him, reiterated that the U.S. and other world leaders are firmly 
 
 standing behind that outlined proposal that President Biden laid out about ten days ago, that the U.S. has said that Israelis have signed off on.   
 
And he also made the point to emphasize the importance of preventing this conflict from spreading, and said that, that proposal that was laid out ten 
 
 days ago would quote, "unlock the possibility of calm along the northern border". So, that is really significant language as U.S. officials have 
 
 watched that tension along the northern border with Lebanon increase over the last few weeks. 
 
Coming into these meetings here in Israel, the Secretary of State made the point that he believes the most effective way to get all of the hostages 
 
 out of Hamas, including of course, those American hostages, is to go forth with this proposal that is on the table. He also reiterated those calls for 
 
 Hamas to accept the deal. 
 
He would not entertain questions as to if the raid over the weekend that released those four Israeli hostages, and of course, left upwards of 100 
 
 people dead in that operation would impact -- potentially negatively impact how Hamas responds to this proposal. 
 
But he did say that those Egyptians who he met with earlier today before coming here to Israel had had contact with Hamas just in recent hours. 
 
 Listen to what he told me.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, SECRETARY OF STATE, UNITED STATES: I can't go into the details of our conversations today, except to say that our different 
 
 counterparts were in communication with Hamas as early -- as recently as a few hours ago, and so, I got to -- 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Those conversations hopeful? 
 
BLINKEN: Again, not going to -- not going to give any details about that, but I think Egypt, the United States, other countries believe that, again, 
 
 we should be able to get to yes. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) 
 <br>[14:10:00] 
 
ATWOOD: So, obviously, we'll be watching to see what else comes out of these meetings here in Israel this evening. And we should also note that 
 
 tomorrow morning, the secretary is meeting with Benny Gantz, that member of the war cabinet who resigned in protest of Netanyahu's approach to this 
 
 war, and the fact that he hasn't laid out a plan to bring this war to an end. 
 
So, it's noteworthy that he's meeting with Benny Gantz tomorrow, we'll watch and see what U.S. officials learned about Gantz's plans to play a 
 
 role, pressuring Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu now from the outside. 
 
ASHER: Right, Kylie Atwood live for us there, thank you. Paula, let me go back to you, just to talk a little bit more about the complexity of this 
 
 raid in terms of rescuing the four hostages. The Intelligence that led to it, the planning that went into it, and of course, the fact that Israel 
 
 chose to conduct this raid in broad daylight, which is of course, not what people would ordinarily expect. Explain that decision to us. 
 
HANCOCKS: Yes, so, Zain, they said that they did this raid in broad daylight, as you say, that's unusual decision to make, you usually would do 
 
 it under the cover of darkness because they wanted the element of surprise. Now, according to the Israeli military, this information is coming from -- 
 
 they say that the hostages were being held in two separate residential apartment blocks. 
 
They were about 200 meters from each other, and we heard from an eyewitness on the ground in fact, saying that they saw the Israeli soldiers dressed 
 
 like Hamas fighters, and also dressed like civilians to stay under the radar just before this operation took place. 
 
And we know that there were Apache helicopters involved, we know there were significant airstrikes. The Israeli military says that there were fierce 
 
 gun battles between Hamas fighters and themselves, but provided no evidence for that claim.
 
But we have seen there was significant gunfire, and you can see the aftermath of this operation in the area, this densely-populated area of 
 
 Nuseirat. I mean, the devastation is significant, the death toll is significant. And we understand that there weren't helicopters waiting just 
 
 on the beach for the hostages. 
 
Once they had been extracted from these apartment blocks, and they were taken into the helicopters and brought to Israeli soil. Now, these two 
 
 apartment blocks themselves, according to the military, they had built models of these apartment blocks beforehand. 
 
The Intelligence they had, this had been weeks in the planning according to them. So, they wanted to give the troops that were involved, training, to 
 
 try and get inside and extract the hostages. We understand from the Israeli military that the three men were locked in one apartment and then the other 
 
 apartment, 200 meters away was where the female hostage was being held. Zain?
 
ASHER: Right, Paula Hancocks live for us there, thank you so much. And actually, later on in the show, I'm going to be speaking with the 
 
 diplomatic correspondent for the Israeli newspaper "Haaretz", Amir Tibon is going to be joining me for much more on the political situation inside of 
 
 Israel. 
 
Alright, to the EU elections now where a strong showing by far-right parties are sending shockwaves across the European political landscape. 
 
 Far-right groups including Germany's AFD scored major gains and are set to win about 150 of parliament's 720 seats, centrists did maintain a clear 
 
 majority. 
 
But in France, President Emmanuel Macron made a stunning move by dissolving the lower house of the French parliament and calling for snap elections. He 
 
 made the announcement after his party was routed by the far-right national rally party. CNN's Melissa Bell joins us live now from Paris. So, just 
 
 explain the political calculation by President Macron here, because it -- you know, it is a bit of a gamble.
 
MELISSA BELL, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: It's a complete gamble, and it's pretty controversial because what it appears the French President is 
 
 counting on that over the course of the next month as we approach these parliamentary elections first-round on the 30th June, second round on the 
 
 7th of July, Zain, that by then, sufficient numbers of the traditional parties of France who don't want to see the far-right anywhere near power 
 
 at the national level will gather around him to support he and his party.   
 
And it may be that at local levels, some -- there are some alliances made that allow that traditional, what the French call Republican front. That in 
 
 the past has meant that even when the far-right has made it to the second round of presidential elections, for instance, the left and the right have 
 
 gathered together to ensure that they don't succeed overall electorally.   
 <br>[14:15:00] 
 
Now, the calculation from Emmanuel Macron is that this will happen this time as well. In fact, you heard in a slightly alarmed voice when he spoke 
 
 to the nation last night of his disappointment, but also of his hope that this would be a sort of wake-up call for the French to think hard about who 
 
 it is they're actually voting for and what it would mean for the country.   
 
Clearly though, it's a gamble. The national -- the Rassemblement National has been rebranded is doing well in polls, Emmanuel Macron's party not so 
 
 much. And the fear is among some within more traditional centrist parties of France, that if they do as well as the polls suggest that they might, 
 
 the next French Prime Minister would be taken from within their ranks like Sejourne, Bardella, the sort of young -- a fresh face that helped pushed 
 
 them towards that European election victory. 
 
And that would mean several years of co-habitation as is done here in France between the French President and the far-right Prime Minister until 
 
 the next presidential poll in 2027. And that in a very concrete sense would lead to, no doubt, a great deal of paralysis, difficulty for the president 
 
 to get his agenda through. 
 
It was already compromised by the fact that he lost his overall majority, his absolute majority at the last election. This would made it -- make it 
 
 harder still, given the differences between he and his party in the far- right on a number of different issues. So, it is a pretty big gamble, and we'll see what the French have to say about it.
 
What they also say, those around President Macron said the scale of the victory of the far-right was such that they really didn't feel they had 
 
 much of a choice. It was important now to give the electors, to say what has happened here, the electoral strategy of the party has been remarkably 
 
 successful. 
 
I'm speaking here of the far-right, there is a lot of dissatisfaction in France amongst the electorate, inflation, cost of living, the green 
 
 regulation coming from Brussels and all of that is something that they very successfully managed to tap into. The question is that they can take that 
 
 now to the polls later this month, Zain. 
 
ASHER: All right, Melissa Bell, live for us there, thank you so much. All right, I want to talk about the impact these elections are having across 
 
 Europe. Let's bring in Barbara Moens, who is the chief EU correspondent for "Politico". Barbara, thank you so much for being with us. I mean, these 
 
 results are really a wake-up call for the European establishment. What's the message that's being sent here?  
 
BARBARA MOENS, CHIEF EU CORRESPONDENT, POLITICO: So, the expectation beforehand was that we'd have a very strong search to the right and the 
 
 far-right, right? And if you look at these results now, that has happened, but not as much as was expected. So, there is definitely a sort of relief 
 
 also in Brussels actually, that the center -- the current platform on which European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has secured her first-
 
 time is holding in these parliamentary results. 
 
At the same time, there is clearly a search to derail(ph) to the far-right, which would have an impact on European policies when it comes to climate 
 
 change, when it comes to migration or when it comes to the EU's support to Ukraine. 
 
ASHER: And a lot of the far-right gains were centered in countries that have a large number of seats. So, we're talking about France, Italy and 
 
 Germany. Just explain why, why there was the rise in popularity among far- right parties in those three countries?  
 
MOENS: What we saw during this European parliament election is that there were a lot of national campaigns, right? So, in a lot of countries, it 
 
 wasn't per se about the European issues, but it was more about the national issues. As we've just heard in France, for example, where the far-right has 
 
 made huge gains, the far-right has made these European parliament elections really more about the current French President Emmanuel Macron and whether 
 
 the French are still supporting him. 
 
A lot of unease there as just was mentioned on cost of living, migration. Similar things happened in Germany where there is a lot of unease towards 
 
 the current governing coalition of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. 
 
And there as well, we've seen a surge for the far-right at the -- and so, the combination of those big countries, as you said, which have a lot of 
 
 seats in the European parliament, and the surge of the far-right in those bigger countries, obviously have an impact on these European parliament 
 
 seats after these European parliament elections.
 
ASHER: You touched on France, I mean in France, you know, the sort of the gains by the National Rally was expected, but it's really the scale of the 
 
 victory that caught people by surprise. Will this gamble by Macron to call the snap elections, will it pay off? I mean, it is very risky for him to do 
 
 this.
 
MOENS: It's very risky, and there was a lot of surprise, not just in Paris on this move for my call, but also in Brussels, and what it could mean for 
 
 the EU. One theory that some of the diplomats here that we were speaking to, is that Macron wants to avoid that we would have a strong far-right 
 
 Rassemblement National ahead of the presidential elections in 2027. 
 <br>[14:20:00] 
 
And so, that, by giving the French, at this point already a chance to vote, potentially even for the far-right in France, that would weaken their 
 
 support towards the presidential elections. At the same time as you said, it is a very risky move that could backfire and also hurts weakening Macron 
 
 even more both on the national level, but also on the European level.
 
Where obviously, France, given its size has a very big impact on in terms of policy files, but also in terms of personnel. 
 
ASHER: And finally, the environmentalists, the greens were probably the biggest losers, they lost about 20 seats. I mean, they lost a third 
 
 compared to what they had in 2019, why? 
 
MOENS: They had a huge win in 2019. Remember this was a time of the climate marches in Europe, Greta Thunberg. So, there was a huge surge. We had very 
 
 ambitious European climate policy in the last five years we'd had huge effects on industry, on civilians, on farmers. 
 
And so, there was a lot of unease with that, so a lot of protests against some of these green policies coming from Brussels. So, that has really had 
 
 an impact on these European parliament elections. At the same time, it is not ruled out that current European Commission President Ursula von der 
 
 Leyen, who is seeking a second term and needs a majority in the European parliament to get that second term, might even look at the greens as well 
 
 to get that support if she doesn't find enough support among the current centrist parties. 
 
ASHER: All right, Barbara Moens live for us there, thank you so much. Ukraine's claims to have dealt Russia a major blow, damaging one of 
 
 Russia's most advanced fighter jets on Sunday. Here you can actually see satellite images on the SU-57 fighter in the days prior to the attack, just 
 
 one of these jets is estimated to cost between $35 million and $54 million. 
 
The suspected drone attack took place deep inside Russian territory. The jet was at a Russian military base, some 600 kilometers or almost 375 miles 
 
 behind the front lines. All right, we're tracking breaking news out of southeastern Africa, a plane carrying the vice president of Malawi has gone 
 
 missing after it failed to make a schedule landing. That's according to a press release from the presidential office and cabinet, the plane was 
 
 carrying the Vice President Saulos Chilima and nine others, that's according to the statement.
 
Malawi's President Lazarus Chakwera has ordered all regional and national agencies to conduct an immediate search and rescue operation to locate 
 
 where exactly this aircraft is. This is a breaking news story, and we will, of course, keep you updated as and when we learn more. 
 
All right, still to come tonight, a pivotal moment in the federal gun trial of Hunter Biden. We'll have a live report on where the case stands against 
 
 the U.S. President's son.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 <br>[14:25:44] 
 
ASHER: All right, welcome back. The fate of U.S. President Joe Biden's son will soon be in the hands of a jury. Right now, closing arguments are 
 
 underway on Hunter Biden's federal gun trial in the state of Delaware. The defense rested its case without calling him to the stand. Hunter Biden has 
 
 pleaded not guilty to three charges alleging he purchased a gun while being an active drug user.
 
If convicted on all counts, he could face up to 25 years in prison, although it is unlikely that he would serve that. Joining us live now from 
 
 outside the courthouse is CNN's Paula Reid. So, Paula, just talk to us about what's happening right now in closing arguments, typically, the 
 
 defense goes first. 
 
What is their strategy in terms of how they're portraying -- 
 
PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT: So, it's actually a little different. I know in the -- 
 
ASHER: Oh, go ahead, go ahead. 
 
REID: So, in the state court where we just saw former President Trump prosecuted there. Yes, the defense went first,  then the prosecution. But 
 
 here in federal court, prosecutors go first, then defense attorneys, and then prosecutors, they get to button up their case. So, we already heard 
 
 from prosecutors -- and look, I was in there earlier this morning, it's a tightly-packed courtroom, particularly on the defense side, you had the 
 
 first lady of the United States, you had Hunter's wife, you had his half- sister. 
 
You had so many people crammed in to show their support. And it's interesting because that is exactly where prosecutors started their case. 
 
 They pointed directly to the gallery where the first lady is sitting, and said, look, those people, they're not evidence, that they don't matter.
 
It's clear that they are concerned potentially about the jury being distracted by the presence of the first lady and his family members. And 
 
 they reiterated that the focus here should be on the evidence, and they believe that the evidence here, it is personal, it is ugly, but they say it 
 
 is overwhelming that Hunter Biden knew that he was either using drugs or addicted to them when he filled out the form to buy this gun. 
 
Now, they had a chance to go for about an hour to close their case, and then it was the defense attorney, Abbe Lowell, who was up, and he warned 
 
 the jury not to improperly convict his clients. He reminded them that there is no direct evidence. There's no one who says that they saw Hunter Biden 
 
 using drugs during the time he owned this gun. 
 
Now, he also emphasized the fact that most of the prosecutors case is based on circumstantial evidence, and he even compared their prosecution to a 
 
 magician trying to do a trick in front of the jury. We expect that he will wrap up any moment. Then the judge is going to have some additional 
 
 instructions for the jurors, and then it's going to be up to them to decide Hunter Biden's fate on these three counts. 
 
It is possible that we could get a verdict today, but it's just completely impossible to know how long it will take them to deliberate on these 
 
 counts. 
 
ASHER: Yes, one of the key aspects that you touched on in this case is really this idea of whether or not Hunter Biden actually considered himself 
 
 as an addict when he purchased the gun. Just talk to us about sentencing guidelines and   what's realistic here in terms of an actual sentence for 
 
 Hunter?
 
REID: Look, if he's convicted on all these charges, he could potentially face decades in prison, hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines. But 
 
 that's the upper range, and sentencing is definitely more of an art than a science. It's expected that as a first-time offender, again, if he's even 
 
 convicted, he would face something far less. 
 
Now, he faces three counts, for example, if he's only convicted on one count, the sentence would be even last. But he is a first-time offender, 
 
 that would likely be taken into consideration here. So, it's difficult to say exactly what his sentence would be if convicted, though I can say that 
 
 jail time would be on the table, a possibility. 
 
ASHER: All right, Paula Reid live for us there, thank you so much. All right, meantime, let's turn to Donald Trump, he is starting off the week by 
 
 meeting with his probation officer, the presumptive U.S. Republican presidential nominee must attend a virtual pre-sentencing interview. This 
 
 comes after Trump's conviction last month on 34 felony counts of falsifying business records. 
 
After today's interview, the Probation Department will submit a report to Judge Juan Merchan, who has scheduled Trump's sentencing on July 11th. All 
 
 right, still to come tonight, the U.S. -- U.N. Secretary -- Security Council, excuse me, is expected to vote on a resolution backing a ceasefire 
 
 proposal between Israel and Hamas. Details ahead on what is needed for it to pass. 
 
And then Israel's Prime Minister is under pressure after a key member of his war cabinet resigns with some stinging accusations. That's next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:33:57]
 
ASHER: All right, welcome back. We are keeping a close eye on the U.N. Security Council where a vote on a resolution for a permanent end to 
 
 hostilities between Israel and Hamas is expected to happen soon. The U.S. is proposing a permanent ceasefire and the release of hostages in Gaza. CNN 
 
 has obtained the latest draft of this resolution, which U.S. officials say could pass in less than an hour from now. 
 
Let's go straight to our senior U.N. correspondent, Richard Roth. So Richard, just take us through this because the U.S. has previously been 
 
 widely criticized for having blocked several U.N. draft resolutions calling for a ceasefire in Gaza. Why the change this time? 
 
RICHARD ROTH, CNN SENIOR UN CORRESPONDENT: You lingered on the word senior there, but I'll move past that. Yes, it's been fascinating how the -- 
 
ASHER: Junior correspondent. 
 
ROTH: I'm an intern. 
 
ASHER: Yes. 
 
ROTH: The U.S. has certainly been forced to adjust in the wording of these resolutions There's also no guarantee if it even passes today, how do you 
 
 get Israel, Hamas, and all other factors to comply? That's been the problem in other recent resolutions. 
 <br>[14:35:01]
 
I mean the U.S. fought language regarding ceasefires. We've now been through this for like eight months and now they've come to this, additional 
 
 protests by Palestinian backers. Here in the U.S., it's become a major political issue. So, now the U.S. draft backed resolution the key point 
 
 saying that's resolution welcomes the new ceasefire proposal announced by President Biden, calls upon Hamas to accept it and urges both parties to 
 
 fully implement its terms without delay and without condition. 
 
As you know, by U.N. standards, one word can be adjusted, tweaked 20 different ways. The U.S. expects this vote to pass. You never know. We're 
 
 going to expect it in about an hour the vote at the council, Zain. 
 
ASHER: And just in -- I mean, we know that Israel has always had a very sort of testy fraught relationship with the U.N. What's the latest on that 
 
 front? 
 
ROTH: What's new is that Israel is appointing a new old ambassador here at the U.N. The forceful ambassador Gilad Erdan has -- will be replaced by 
 
 Danny Danon, the former Israeli ambassador to the U.N. The timing is curious because just last week, the Israeli ambassador Erdan played on X a 
 
 Twitter video with him on the phone with the U.N. Chief of Staff to the Secretary General in which he was bitterly complaining about Israel being 
 
 placed on a list of countries that harm children and reduce their human rights. You can't avoid the timing. 
 
Though Israel, I'm sure, is certainly backing Erdan. But do you know that Prime Minister Netanyahu has not spoken with the Secretary General of the 
 
 U.N. since the war began? 
 
ASHER: That was an important point. All right. Richard Roth, my very senior, super senior former intern. I'm just kidding. Richard Roth live for 
 
 us there. Sorry, I butchered your title. He's not laughing at all. Richard Roth, I'll call you after. Thank you for being with us. Appreciate it. 
 
All right. He delayed it for a day as the hostage rescue operation unfolded, but a key member of Israel's war cabinet ended up going through 
 
 with his threat to resign on Sunday. Former Defense Minister Benny Gantz left Benjamin Netanyahu's emergency coalition, accusing the Prime Minister 
 
 of lacking a clear war strategy and prioritizing his own political survival. 
 
The shakeup could leave Mr. Netanyahu much more reliant on far-right ministers who've threatened to bring down his government if he accepts the 
 
 latest ceasefire proposal. 
 
I'm joined live now by Israeli journalist Amir Tibon in Tel Aviv. He's diplomatic correspondent for Haaretz. Amir, so good to see you. I mean just 
 
 talk to us a bit more about what the departure of Benny Gantz means for Netanyahu politically. Obviously, he's that much more beholden to far-right 
 
 ministers. 
 
AMIR TIBON, DIPLOMATIC CORRESPONDENT, HAARETZ: Yes. You know, we're speaking as Antony Blinken, Secretary of State, is here in Israel and he 
 
 met with Netanyahu today and he's going to meet tomorrow with Minister Benny Gantz who is still technically part of the government but announced 
 
 his resignation last night and it will become official tomorrow night, and then Netanyahu will be left alone with the far-right extremist ultra-
 
 religious parties that make up his coalition. 
 
And within that coalition, there are very strong political actors who oppose hostage deal and pose the plan that Netanyahu himself had presented 
 
 to the American side and was then adopted by President Biden. So we're in this weird situation where we haven't yet received an official response 
 
 from Hamas to that plan and at the same time, there is growing concern that the Israeli government, now that the moderates are out of it, would also 
 
 renege on its own previous commitment. 
 
ASHER: I mean that is a really tight spot for Netanyahu to be and especially when you consider the fact that Hamas has rejected the 
 
 ceasefire, unless a full-time sort of enter the wars on the table, so what does that mean for Blinken, Antony Blinken, who's in the region trying to 
 
 sort of negotiate all sides agreeing it to this temporary ceasefire? I mean, what -- what's the likelihood that anything can come from this? 
 
TIBON: It's a desperate situation honestly for the Biden administration, but it's more desperate for the families of the hostages and we should keep 
 
 our focus on them because even though we saw the truly unbelievable rescue operation that the IDF and the special unit of the Israeli police conducted 
 
 on Saturday and they took out four hostages, brought them back alive to their families. 
 <br>[14:40:03]
 
We still have many dozens of families in this country who know that this kind of rescue operation will not happen for their loved ones. We've been 
 
 into this war eight months now and our military has been able to release seven hostages alive through these kinds of special operations. The only 
 
 way to get out a massive amount of hostages, the many dozens of living hostages we still have in Gaza, and on top of it also the dozens of 
 
 unfortunately dead bodies that are held by Hamas is by making a deal. And I understand that Secretaries of State, Lincoln and President Biden, are 
 
 pushing very hard for a deal knowing that the chances are not very high. 
 
But at the same time, just last week, senior officials in the Biden administration met with several of the families of these hostages including 
 
 those that have American citizenship and they realized that without their involvement and without their attempt to bring about something for these 
 
 families, there is going to be nothing there. And so that's why they're going to keep pushing hard even though the complexities, as I just 
 
 described, you know, Hamas not yet giving a reply and the Israeli government now beholden to forces that have a very, very extreme view on 
 
 this issue, that makes it very complicated to reach a deal. 
 
ASHER: I mean, gosh you were right about just how incredible this rescue. I mean, it was in incredible. I mean a lot of us here were glued to our TV 
 
 screens watching just couldn't believe what the IDF managed to pull. It was literally something out of a movie. 
 
TIBON: It's literally the same as -- 
 
ASHER: Same. I'm sure. Something out of a movie, right? But just in terms of Netanyahu ever coming up or publicly announcing a plan for the day 
 
 after, is that ever going to happen, do you think? 
 
TIBON: Well, this is part of the problem that today, when we're looking at the war in Gaza, eight months after October 7, there is still no viable 
 
 alternative that's being discussed to Hamas's continued rule the Gaza strip. 
 
There are those in Israel, especially the far right in Netanyahu's government who want Israel to fully occupy Gaza and basically set up some 
 
 kind of some military rule over there. I don't think the majority of the Israeli public is there. And I know for certain that none of Israel's 
 
 allies abroad and, of course, are very important allies in the region support. 
 
On top of that, you then have the people who are saying, OK, let's look for another solution, something like some kind of reformed Palestinian 
 
 authority, some kind of, you know, Arab multinational force, but Netanyahu's coalition partners oppose that and they are completely shutting 
 
 down any kind of discussion on this issue. And that also impacts the situation with the hostage negotiation because Hamas doesn't feel that it's 
 
 got some kind of future to worry about. 
 
They don't feel like they've got Their backs against the wall and that they're about to be replaced by some kind of a different regime in Gaza, so 
 
 they're taking their time and this is really tragic because in the result, we're losing here on all fronts. You know, we have soldiers on the ground 
 
 who are doing incredible things, like what you saw on Saturday, this rescue operation. 
 
But on the strategic level, many Israelis are asking what are we doing right now? What is leading this war? What are the goals? And we're not 
 
 getting clear answers. 
 
ASHER: All right. Amir Tibon live for us. Thank you. It's always good to have you on the program. We're grateful that you made the time. Thank you, 
 
 Amir. 
 
TIBON: Thank you very much. 
 
ASHER: We'll be right back after this quick break. Don't go away. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:46:24]
 
ASHER: All right. A new wave of balloons filled with trash came floating across the border from North Korea to South Korea over the weekend, at the 
 
 same time a cross-border loudspeaker battle is also heating up as well. 
 
CNN's Mike Valerio has more from Seoul. 
 
MIKE VALERIO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well in a rare moment of agreement, we have leaders from both South Korea and North Korea saying that there lies 
 
 the potential for this balloon tit-for-tat, this balloon feud to escalate into something larger But, you know, in case you're just dialing into this 
 
 section of the news cycle, what this is all about, at the heart of this, is the practice of South Korean activist human rights groups for years now 
 
 sending balloons from South Korea over the DMZ to North Korea and attached to those balloons are packages and parcels that are filled with flash 
 
 drives and leaflets that give people in North Korea a feel for what freedom is like, what life is like in South Korea. 
 
Now, a few days ago, the north said, you know what, we consider these deliveries to be garbage so in return, we're going to send balloons of our 
 
 garbage from the north over to South Korea. So in response to that over the weekend, South Korea began loudspeaker propaganda broadcast. North Korea, 
 
 there may be indications, according to the South Korea's Joint Chief of Staff, that North Korea may be ready to begin its own propaganda broadcast 
 
 as well. 
 
So this leaves the leader of South Korea's opposition, Lee Jae-myung, saying, you know, this is a game of chicken, and this has got to stop. 
 
 Listen to what he said earlier today. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO)
 
LEE JAE-MYUNG, SOUTH KOREAN OPPOSITION LEADER (through translator): What started as a leaflet could escalate into a local conflict or war. Looking 
 
 at these two sides' responses, I wonder whether the authorities in North and South Korea are considering the safety of the people and the community. 
 
(END VIDEO)
 
VALERIO: So in terms of how North Korea is responding, the sister of Kim Jong-un, Kim Yo-jong, said that this could be the prelude to a very 
 
 dangerous situation, adding that Seoul, from their point of view, is creating an atmosphere of chaos. So, what we are watching is whether or not 
 
 North Korea begins again their own loudspeaker propaganda broadcasts. 
 
And for what it's worth according to our CNN tally, there now have been more than 1,100 balloons that have made their way from North Korean 
 
 airspace to here in South Korea. Mike Valeriom, CNN, Seoul. 
 
ASHER: All right. To China now and a look at how rapidly changing demographics are being reflected in real time as more people move to cities 
 
 to find their work and raise their families. A growing number of communities are becoming so-called ghost villages. Marc Stewart explains. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
MARC STEWART, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): In parts of rural China, time stands still. 
 
STEWART: We're on a road trip to show you what's known as a ghost village. We are technically still in Beijing about 40 miles from the city center. 
 
 And we came here to show how people have moved over time. This was once a thriving village. Now, it's almost abandoned. 
 
STEWART (voice-over): Houses in the village are overgrown with weeds. In this home, reminders children were once here, artwork and school 
 
 certificates hang on the wall, shoes lay on the ground. 
 
STEWART: We don't know exactly what this once was, but it's clearly locked up. The windows are broken. No one has been here for a while. 
 
STEWART (voice-over): To give you some context. 
 <br>[14:50:00]
 
In the 1980s, only about 20 percent of Chinese families lived in cities. Now that number is closer to 70 percent. This village reflects that 
 
 transition. 
 
STEWART: This shift isn't without side effects as young people move to cities for better opportunities and jobs. In some cases, they're leaving 
 
 parents, even children behind. 
 
STEWART (voice-over): Urbanization on such a massive scale has drastically changed the economic and social landscape across rural China. 
 
STEWART: What's happening here isn't that much of a surprise. Modernization has been a big part of the Chinese government's blueprint for the future, 
 
 an effort to keep up with the strength of the West. So, we're seeing this movement from farm to factory and now beyond. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
ASHER: All right. Marc Stewart there. We'll be right back after this quick break. Don't go away. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
ASHER: All right. Apple is getting into the artificial intelligence world with its Apple Intelligence. The announcement was made just a short time 
 
 ago at the Worldwide Developers Conference. During CEO's Tim Cook's keynote, he said Apple Intelligence will take current AI tools a step 
 
 further by making them much more personalized, Apple users with privacy in mind. 
 
Joining us live now is CNN Technology Reporter Brian Fung. Brian, What more can you tell us about Apple's AI strategy? 
 
BRIAN FUNG, CNN TECHNOLOGY REPORTER: Yes, Zain. It's safe to say this was a jam-packed keynote, but I described the AI features as more evolutionary 
 
 than revolutionary nd maybe that's intentional. So the big announcement today was, as you said, Apple Intelligence, which is Apple's name for all 
 
 the AI features it's adding to the iPhone Mac and iPadm basically Apple says it's going to use information about you in your life to streamline how 
 
 you use its devices. 
 
Apple will now understand more about your relationships and communications, you know, ranging from events you've been to, to links you've been sent, 
 
 and it'll use that Information to help you call up photos and relevant details from the past and basically make your life a little bit easier. 
 
Apple says Apple Intelligence will be able to prioritize notifications. So, the most important ones appear at the top of your screen and it can take 
 
 basic photo editing instructions or, you know, help you play a song that someone sent you. A lot of this data is going to go toward making Siri a 
 
 lot smarter, Apple says, so users will be able to ask Siri to send photos from someone -- to someone, excuse me, from an event you were both at or 
 
 perhaps make stylized AI generated images of your contacts. 
 <br>[14:55:01]
 
And Apple also announced that it's integrating chat GPT into Siri and other Apple apps, confirming a partnership with OpenAI. Now when you ask Siri a 
 
 question, it will prompt you whether you want to send that query to chat GPT before, you know, it actually does so or you can ask chat GPT to write 
 
 documents from within Apple's apps. And all of this stuff, it says, comes with iOS 18 and the latest version of Mac OS, which will mean many of these 
 
 features are going to work best on the newest Apple hardware so that should drive demand for a new Apple devices, Zain. 
 
ASHER: All right. right. Brian Fung live for us there. Thank you so much. 
 
All right. And finally, how would you feel getting off a flight and seeing this? The cockpit and nose of an Austrian Airlines flight was badly damaged 
 
 on Sunday after being hit by HALE, the Airbus A320 carrying a hundred and seventy three passengers and six crew was traveling from the Spanish island 
 
 of Mallorca when it hit a thunderstorm. Thankfully, nobody was injured and the plane landed safely in Vienna, but my goodness look at the nose of that 
 
 plane there. That was some storm. 
 
All right. Thank you so much for watching tonight. Stay with CNN. I'm Zain Asher. "NEWSROOM" with Jim Sciutto is up next. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK) 
 
END