Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: Former President Carter Lying in State at U.S. Capitol; Trump Doesn't Rule Out Using Military on Panama Canal and Greenland; Wildfires Break Out in Southern California; Meta Gets Rid of Third-Party Fact- Checkers; Jensen Huang Discusses the Future of A.I.; Trump Welcomes Meta's Decision; Wagwear's Daywear for Dogs; Wildfire Emergency in Southern California. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired January 07, 2025 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN ANCHOR, FIRST MOVE:  Hello, I'm Julia Chatterley in New York. And you're looking at live pictures from Washington, D.C. And at 
 
 the Capitol Rotunda, a commemoration is taking place marking the life of former U.S. President Jimmy Carter.
 
A service began in his honor last hour with Senate Majority Leader John Thune and U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris, among those providing 
 
 eulogies. Members of Congress now filing past the coffin, paying their respects.
 
His casket arrived at the U.S. Capitol earlier this afternoon, and he will now lie in state until his funeral on Thursday.
 
Manu Raju is on Capitol Hill for us now, Manu, a somber day, but also, I think, a reflection of a life well lived, providing great service for many 
 
 decades to the people he clearly loved.
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, no question about it. And really a bipartisan recognition as well, not just Democrats 
 
 heralding his life in his service, but Republicans as well. Of course, during his time, before he passed, Republicans often would criticize Jimmy 
 
 Carter and his time in office. That was certainly not the case today.
 
In fact, they were very effusive in his life that he has lived. The two Republican leaders who spoke at this eulogy in the Capitol Rotunda, Senator 
 
 John Thune, who's the new Republican majority leader of the United States Senate, as well as Speaker Mike Johnson, speaking about his humble 
 
 upbringings, from living in Plains, Georgia, really a remarkable ascension all the way to the presidency. And also talking about some of his 
 
 achievements in office, trying to achieving peace between Egypt and Israel is one of his major lasting achievements.
 
But also, not only that, but his work after he left the White House, what he did in terms of trying to advance the cause of peace and human rights 
 
 through various causes, whether it's the Carter Center and working with in the Habitat for Humanity, actually going and building homes for people who 
 
 are less fortunate. They talked a lot about that service as well.
 
And we did hear also from the vice president of the United States, Kamala Harris, who did eulogize and praise his life and his service, both in 
 
 office and in -- and after office as well. This is the beginning of a process where official Washington will commemorate the life lived for -- by 
 
 Jimmy Carter. This will now in the aftermath of today's service, he'll lie in state in the capital.
 
The public will -- can come into the United States Capitol, pay the respects as he lies in state up until Thursday, and that's when the formal 
 
 funeral will take place, where we expect to hear eulogies and also visits over the next couple of days, not just from President Biden, also, 
 
 President-Elect Donald Trump is expected to pay his respects as well.
 
So, a moment in which Washington, which is constantly, of course, feuding along party lines, coming together on a bipartisan basis to praise the life 
 
 and service of the late Jimmy Carter, dead now 100 years old. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and two days now to pay their respects. Manu Raju, thank you so much for that.
 
RAJU:  Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And from a commemoration of a past presidency to the future of the next one, less than two weeks before his inauguration, the president-
 
 elect giving us some sense of his second term priorities. In a wide-ranging news conference, Donald Trump described the late President Carter's 
 
 decision to give away the Panama Canal as a mistake. There was more discussion on the future ownership of Greenland.
 
Trump also reiterated his offer to have Canada become part of the United States, suggesting he could use what he called economic force to make that 
 
 happen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT-ELECT:  Why are we supporting a country 200 billion plus a year? Our military is at their disposal, all of these other 
 
 things. They should be a state. That's why I told Trudeau when he came down, I said, what would happen if we didn't do it? He said Canada would 
 
 dissolve. Canada wouldn't be able to function.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  And Stephen Collinson joins us now. Stephen, I think this is fair to say it was classic Trump in all forms. But I'm slightly tired, I 
 
 have to say, of the gotcha questions from the media, sort of trying to create headlines when he doesn't or does respond to certain things.
 
The 51st state idea though from Canada is cheeky to say the least. And Prime Minister Trudeau, obviously recently resigning, responded with, isn't 
 
 -- there isn't a snowball's chance in hell. So, a sort of pointed response from them at this moment too.
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER:  Yes, that's right. You know, Julia, I think it's easy to sort of watch what Trump says about 
 
 Panama and Canada and Greenland and interpret it as the ramblings of someone that's ignorant on foreign policy who just wants to shock people or 
 
 who is looking for leverage, that's one of the classic explanations of Trump's extremism, that he's a real estate guy and he's just looking for a 
 
 new deal. There's some truth to that.
 
But I think his approach to foreign policy that we're seeing here, especially in the Western Hemisphere is actually quite instructive to how 
 
 Trump views the world and how the America First movement sees foreign policy in the coming years.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
A lot of it is rooted in the idea that the United States should have this sphere of influence in its own hemisphere. The fear that nations like 
 
 China, Russia, and Iran could get a foothold. This of course, recall the Monroe Doctrine of the 1820s when it was European colonial powers were -- 
 
 that were the worry for America's rulers then.
 
So, I think we need to take Trump seriously, even though if it remains really improbable that he could annex Canada, by Greenland or would send 
 
 troops to seize back the Panama Canal.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I would agree with you. I also think at times you could argue it sort of bullying tactics, particularly when your economy's doing 
 
 relative well versus the rest of the world. And to some degree, leaders like Prime Minister Justin Trudeau pay some form of homage, it seems to be 
 
 on some level at least working.
 
Will it work for Hamas? Because I think this was one of the interesting things that came out of this when the president-elect suggested that, 
 
 quote, "all hell" would break out if the hostages in Gaza are still held in Gaza and not returned by Inauguration Day.
 
COLLINSON:  Yes, I don't really know what all hell breaking out would mean. Trump came to power arguing that America should pull back from foreign 
 
 wars. Is he going to spend the first few hours of his presidency throwing American troops into the war in Gaza? That doesn't seem to be very likely. 
 
 I guess he hopes that his harsh words will be heard not just in Gaza, but also In Iran.
 
To your first point, I think you're exactly right. I think Trump does see the world as a contest between strong countries and weaker ones. That's how 
 
 he tries to coerce power. In fact, he told us in his -- one of his U.N. Assembly addresses in his first term that each country should aggressively 
 
 pursue their own interests, and that's just fine.
 
And that, of course, means like big countries like the United States, China, Russia, they get more of the spoils because they're bigger and more 
 
 powerful. And I think Trump thinks that's just fine and that the United States is using its inherent advantages. That is a key underpinning of his 
 
 attitude to the world. And I think the reason why he often doesn't seem to make much distinction between American allies and American adversaries.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And is there a deal to be done in the middle of that, to your earlier point about the prospect of a deal, perhaps? I guess, Greenland, 
 
 for example, I mean, they've got a population of, what, just under 56,000 people, an autonomous region of Denmark? Is there a deal to be done 
 
 somewhere amidst some of the commentary that he provides, perhaps?
 
COLLINSON:  Well, if, for example, the U.S. got more access to Greenland's minerals, was able to exploit some of these shipping routes that are 
 
 opening up with the retreat of the polar ice, that would be a big win for the United States.
 
Trump does have a history of getting wins and deals. For example, I would argue the first term U.S., Canada, Mexico trade pact, which honestly wasn't 
 
 that much different than NAFTA, but which he portrayed as a massive win for American consumers and manufacturers. So, often this bluster does get a 
 
 deal, but it doesn't amount to very much.
 
Although, I would suggest in this term, his second term with this new administration and with some of the foreign policy professionals he's 
 
 employing here, he's looking for more than just a little deals. He's looking to absolutely reshaped the way the United States operates in the 
 
 world. ' CHATTERLEY:  And so, happy with the USMCA or the follow on from NAFTA that he now wants to renegotiate it, apparently. There's some irony there 
 
 somewhere. Something tells me we're going to be chatting a lot like this at the beginning of our show. So, yes. Stephen Collison, thank you, sir.
 
COLLINSON:  Thanks.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Now, as the president-elect was discussing the future of Greenland, his son, Donald Trump Jr. was actually there visiting. But why 
 
 is the president so interested in that autonomous Danish territory as we were just discussing there? Fred Pleitgen has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice- over):  With a Donald Trump Terminator action figure on the cockpit dashboard -- 
 
PLEITGEN:  This looks like the runway Santa Claus would land at.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  -- Trump forced one on final approach to nuke Greenland. Don Jr. claiming it's all just a private visit.
 
DONALD TRUMP JR., U.S. PRESIDENT-ELECT TRUMP'S SON:  Just here as tourists, seeing it, looks like an incredible place. We've been talking about going 
 
 for a while. I was actually supposed to be here last spring. There's some other stuff I do in my free time. But just really excited to be here.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  But Don Jr. 's trip comes right as his dad, the president-elect, has reiterated he wants Greenland to become a U.S. 
 
 territory. I'm hearing that the people of Greenland are MAGA, Trump said in a post on his platform Truth Social, and we will protect it and cherish it 
 
 from a very vicious outside world. Make Greenland great again.
 
It's not the only expansionist talk from the president-elect. Trump also on Truth Social recently insinuating he wants the U.S. to swallow Canada as 
 
 well.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
Many people in Canada love being the 51st state, he said. The United States can no longer suffer the massive trade deficits and subsidies that Canada 
 
 needs to stay afloat. Justin Trudeau knew this and resigned.
 
Greenland is important to the U.S. about halfway between North America and Europe. The U.S. already has important military assets, including a Space 
 
 Force base with a missile defense radar base there.
 
And China has been trying to get its hands on some of the potentially vast mineral deposits the autonomous island, which is part of Denmark, holds.
 
TRUMP:  We need Greenland for national security. People really don't even know if Denmark has any legal right to it. But if they do, they should give 
 
 it up because we need it for national security. That's for the free world. I'm talking about protecting the free world.
 
PLEITGEN (voice-over):  But that's where the president-elect's big ideas seem to meet a different reality. Both Greenland and Denmark say this piece 
 
 of the Arctic can't be bought.
 
METTE FREDERIKSEN, DANISH PRIME MINISTER (through translator):  We have a clear interest in that it is the United States that plays a large role in 
 
 the area, and not, for example, Russia or other countries. But Greenland is for the Greenlandic people.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. Now, I want to get you straight to Southern California. Dramatic images showing a massive plume of smoke over Santa Monica from 
 
 nearby fires. It's being fueled by a life-threatening windstorm. Officials warning it could be one of the most destructive to hit the region in over a 
 
 decade. I believe I'm showing you live pictures there now of the fires burning.
 
Chad Myers joins us now from the CNN Weather Center. Chad, this story and these fires developing incredibly quickly. What more can you tell us about 
 
 what we're seeing there?
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST:  You know, this fire started about four hours ago, and now we are over 770 acres, 300 hectares, 47 mile per hour 
 
 winds right now. But later on, tonight, Julian, this number will probably approach 80 miles per hour. So, 120, 130 kilometers per hour over an area 
 
 that is literally already on fire.
 
So, this is going to be a dreadful disaster for the people there, Pacific Palisades, California. Here's Los Angeles. You'd know that Hollywood. You 
 
 also know the Disneyland. But other than that, this is the area here as you begin to take the PCH toward Malibu.
 
And the Pacific Palisades is a very affluent area of the part of Los Angeles County there and in toward Ventura County that you have very large 
 
 homes in the mountains. And those homes are going to be on fire tonight. Many of them will be.
 
This is a radar picture. I've taken the color away. Normally, it's green and blue and all that. I've taken the color away so you can see the ash in 
 
 the sky. Radar can see raindrops, it can see snowflakes, but it can also see the ash in the air. The ash from the plume of the smoke that's been 
 
 blowing offshore now, 100 miles offshore from the winds that are blowing across the area.
 
Obviously, red flag warnings were posted. All this critical infrastructure here, we knew it was coming. They turned the power off in some places so 
 
 that the power lines didn't come on and make a strike as the power lines fell off the pole. That spark would eventually make a fire. Well, that 
 
 didn't even have to happen. We don't know what caused the spark and we wouldn't have had a fire without the spark.
 
This was not caused by the wind. The wind caused the fire to explode to -- at this point in time, we're looking at over a billion-dollar natural 
 
 disaster here with this fire. So, without a doubt, this is going to be a significant, significant storm, even if the homes that haven't burned yet, 
 
 there's still so many embers out there that are blowing.
 
And you can see here, this is the arrow of where the fire is, right here compared to Los Angeles down here and also towards San Diego. This is the 
 
 area that's on fire now. If there are more fire starts, if there are more sparks we could get winds here again 80, 90 miles per hour tonight, that 
 
 could cause more fires, Julia.
 
And this is a disaster, all the way down to the Pacific Coast Highway, not quite to Malibu that actually burned last month, some of it did. And then 
 
 not over toward L.A., which is kind of protected by a few canyons. But it's not out of the question that these 80, 90 mile per hour wind gusts tonight 
 
 couldn't push these flames, push these embers for miles and miles and miles.
 
Eventually, it'll get to the coast and then the flames won't matter and the sparks won't matter because they'll just land in the ocean. But for 
 
 tonight, the people there of Pacific Palisades, California, are in for a fight. The firefighters are there, they're trying to take care of it, but 
 
 there's not much you can do when the wind is blowing like this. Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Chad, to your point, it's the uncertainty of fresh fires beginning as a result of those embers. How much longer are we expecting to 
 
 see the winds up to 80 miles per hour that you were describing tonight?
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
MYERS:  We probably only get that 80, 90 per hour gusts for maybe three hours.
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK.
 
MYERS:  Only three hours, but then it goes down to 70, 60. And by tomorrow afternoon, we're down to 30 and 40. But by that time, those sparks have 
 
 fanned the flames to nearly every home in the area. The firefighters could only do so much trying to keep this what they call structure protection 
 
 when there are so many structures on fire. What are you going -- you don't have a firefighter or a fire truck for every structure when there are 
 
 thousands of homes up there.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, thoughts and prayers with everybody and we pray they stay safe. Chad Myers, thank you for that report. And we'll have more on the 
 
 wildfires later in the show.
 
Now, a momentous announcement from Facebook parent Meta.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MARK ZUCKERBERG, CEO, META:  Governments and legacy media have pushed to censor more and more. A lot of this is clearly political. After Trump first 
 
 got elected in 2016, the legacy media wrote nonstop about how misinformation was a threat to democracy. We tried in good faith to address 
 
 those concerns without becoming the arbiters of truth. But the fact- checkers have just been too politically biased. We're going to work with President Trump to push back on governments around the world that are going 
 
 after American companies and pushing to censor more.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. So, that was CEO Mark Zuckerberg there. Removing fact- checkers and introducing user generated community notes, which is similar to what Elon Musk does on X. In other words, they'll now rely on other 
 
 users to add context to the posts that are out there. It's one of the steps the social media giant is taking before President-Elect Donald Trump 
 
 returns to the White House. Clare Duffy has more details.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CLARE DUFFY, CNN BUSINESS WRITER:  Some major changes may be coming to what kinds of content people can see on Meta's platforms, including Facebook and 
 
 Instagram. Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg announcing that the company is doing away with its partnerships with third-party fact-checkers, which I will say 
 
 the company instituted in the wake of concerns that its platforms were being manipulated by foreign actors to spread disinformation and sow 
 
 discord among American voters around elections.
 
But the company is now walking that back and saying it will instead rely on user generated context labels that will be added to posts called community 
 
 notes. This is something that Elon Musk has done at X.
 
And Joel Kaplan, who is one of the company's top Republican executives, he was just elevated to the company's top policy job, talked about this on Fox 
 
 News this morning. Let's listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOEL KAPLAN, CHIEF GLOBAL AFFAIRS OFFICER, META:  So, somebody can write a note, and then the way it works is different people on the platform can 
 
 sort of vote on that note, and if you get people who usually disagree, who all say, yes, that sounds right, then that note gets put on the post and 
 
 people see it. X has been doing it for a while. We think it's working really well, and we're going to adopt that system.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
DUFFY:  The company is also making a number of other changes, including walking back some of its automated content removal. So, that system will be 
 
 focused only on the most extreme violations like terrorism and child sexual exploitation.
 
And Mark Zuckerberg says that these efforts are made to increase free expression on the company's platforms, but I think we can also see this as 
 
 part of the company's bigger effort to cozy up to Trump and appeal to Republicans who have long accused the company of censoring right-wing 
 
 voices. We're seeing this broader shift at Meta, this effort to appeal to Trump ahead of his second administration.
 
We also saw Zuckerberg visiting Trump at Mar-a-Lago after the election. The company has said it will donate a million dollars to Trump's inaugural 
 
 fund. And just yesterday, we learned that the company has hired three new board members including UFC CEO Dana White, who we know is a longtime 
 
 friend of Trump's and Trump's Supporter. So, I think this is part of this broader shift that we're seeing at the company.
 
And what I think is interesting is that Mark Zuckerberg actually acknowledged that these changes are going to allow more free expression on 
 
 the platform, but they're also potentially going to cause more harmful content to make it through onto the platform.
 
Clare Duffy, CNN, New York.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Clare there. And later in the show, we'll discuss more on this with Axios' Sara Fisher, who's actually been 
 
 interviewing Meta's chief marketing officer at the Consumer Electronics Show in Vegas. So, we'll have more context on this decision coming up on 
 
 the show.
 
For now, and straight ahead for us, glittery jackets, sparkly future. NVIDIA CEO, Jensen Huang, wowing the crowds at CES with his bold vision for 
 
 A.I. and human-like robots.
 
And from box to boots. Pets in boots to be exact. The dog apparel that's stylish enough for the catwalk, if you can get your dog to wear them. We 
 
 will find out later, that's coming up. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And a turbulent Tuesday on Wall Street, topping today's Money Move. Rising U.S. bond yields, putting some 
 
 pressure on stocks after the release of stronger than expected economic data. The S&amp;P and the NASDAQ both ending the session down well over 1 
 
 percent. Benchmark U.S. bond yields now at their highest levels since last spring.
 
All this could cause a rough open too in Asia when trading gets under way there very soon. In Tuesday's session the Hang Seng fell more than 1 
 
 percent but solid gains for the Nikkei and the Shanghai Composite. Japanese stocks boosted by strength in chip stocks back over in the United States.
 
And speaking of chips, NVIDIA shares falling from record highs on Tuesday, down in fact more than 6 percent. Investors intrigued, let's call it that, 
 
 by CEO Jensen Huang's bold vision for artificial intelligence and robotics during his keynote speech at CES. They were perhaps a little disappointed 
 
 that he didn't focus on the firm's shorter-term growth outlook.
 
But that said, if just a fraction of what Huang laid out in his address comes true, we're in for a very interesting future indeed, as Anna Stewart 
 
 reports.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANNA STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  There's nothing like a good show in Vegas to entertain fans.
 
JENSEN HUANG, CEO, NVIDIA:  Welcome to CES.
 
STEWART:  And when it's the Consumer Electronics Show, NVIDIA's CEO really draws in the crowds.
 
HUANG:  Do you like my jacket?
 
STEWART:  NVIDIA's share price hit new record highs earlier this week, quite a feat for the world's second most valuable company. This was off the 
 
 back of many announcements.
 
HUANG:  Here it is. Our brand-new GeForce RTX 50 series.
 
STEWART:  From its most advanced consumer GPUs for gamers to a platform called NVIDIA Cosmos to advance artificial intelligence and some big growth 
 
 opportunities ahead.
 
HUANG:  Humanoid robots. My friends. The ChatGPT moment for general robotics is just around the corner. These robots are, one, agentic robots 
 
 and agentic A.I. because, you know, they're information workers. So, long as they could accommodate the computers that we have in our offices, it's 
 
 going to be great.
 
Number two, self-driving cars. And the reason for that is we spent 100 plus years building roads and cities. And then number three, humanoid robots. If 
 
 we have the technology to solve these three, this will be the largest technology industry the world's ever seen.
 
STEWART:  And judging by NVIDIA share price following the announcements, investors agreed. Although, some of that buzz was short lived with shares 
 
 trading lower Tuesday.
 
Anna Stewart, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Our thanks to Anna Stewart there. Now, Dan Ives joins us. He's managing director and senior equity research analyst at Wedbush Securities 
 
 and he was in the audience for the speech on Monday night. Dan, most important question, did you like the jacket? Because you're known for your 
 
 fashion sense.
 
DAN IVES, MANAGING DIRECTOR, WEDBUSH SECURITIES:  Oh, I love the jacket. I think, look, Jensen's stepped it up. He stepped up with that alligator 
 
 leather. You know, I think he definitely has taken it to the next level in terms of his fashion.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, he'll have the animal rights people after him. It looked like crocodile to me, (INAUDIBLE) crocodile. Your overriding sense anyway 
 
 from this was that the whole array of further technologies that he's talking about, be it robotics, autonomous technology, PCs, is going to help 
 
 extend their lead versus the competition. Just describe what you saw.
 
IVES:  Yes. I mean, Julia, look, me and you have talked about A.I. for years, and I think what we saw is this is the early stages of a fourth 
 
 industrial revolution. A once in a 40-year sort of moment and NVIDIA is leading it. And that's why they're expanding to robotics, to autonomous.
 
And I can tell you being here at CES, I mean, this is probably the most important CES, I'd say, in decades, given what we're seeing with A.I.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Why, Dan? Because I also want you to touch on what we heard from him saying in that report there from Anna, which was that the ChatGPT 
 
 moment for general robotics is just around the corner. Like, what are you seeing there? And help us understand because we're not there. And I know 
 
 you know what you're seeing.
 
IVES:  Look, sometimes you come here and there's drones and talking refrigerators. It's not necessarily things are going to scale. But now, the 
 
 technology in terms of autonomous, in terms of robotics, we're not talking 10 years away, we're talking two to three years. When I think an autonomous 
 
 in some ways a year away, it's these chips.
 
NVIDIA is the new oil, the new gold fueling this A.I. revolution. That's why we're bullish on tech stocks for this coming year, led by the godfather 
 
 of A.I. Jensen of NVIDIA.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And you have a feel for it as well, what the supply chain looks like, whether that's in Asia or beyond. What's your sense, Dan, of 
 
 what you're seeing? Because this is crucial too. And I think it goes to what we were saying in the introduction about even if we didn't hear the 
 
 sort of short-term dynamics for the company, you have a feel for it. What are you seeing and hearing?
 
IVES:  Demand to supply 15 to one. It's unlike anything I've ever seen, because there's only one chip in the world when you're calling that red 
 
 phone, it's NVIDIA, that's where you have 2 trillion of A.I. CapEx, and that's all the stock will ebb and flow. But I think this is a 4 trillion 
 
 and ultimately potentially 5 trillion market cap, and that's where you get the popcorn out. You'll have sell offs like today. Those are short lived.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Checkbook out, Dan, is what you really you're saying. If you're saying it's $5 trillion market cap over the next 12 to 15 months, 
 
 and even if people -- 12 to 18 months, if people aren't invested them, then I guess what you're saying is they should be.
 
Can I get your take very quickly on Meta and the moves they made and announced?
 
IVES:  Look, Zuckerberg's playing nice in the sandbox. Trump coming in. This was kind of a preemptive move. Winds are changing in D.C. It's a 180 
 
 what we've seen from Zuckerberg, but I think it was probably the right move. Look, you're seeing big tech embrace Trump, and that's at least how 
 
 it started.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Wait, the right move for whom, Dan, for the company, for investors, or for the general public?
 
IVES:  It's the right move for Zuckerberg and Meta in terms of they don't want to be on the wrong side of Trump. And I think this is something that's 
 
 sort of been, you know, definitely a contentious topic. And I think that's why Zuckerberg's making this move now ahead of obviously inauguration, 
 
 because they don't want to be on the wrong side. Now, for users, there will be less restrictions, less oversight, and there's a double-edged sword 
 
 there.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Got to police the platforms themselves. Users have to police the platforms themselves. So, we've got to do a better job than the 
 
 leaders of these companies can do. Dan Ives, great to chat to you sir, as always.
 
IVES:  Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Thank you. More "First Move" after this. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move," with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. In South Korea, authorities have 
 
 extended an arrest warrant for the suspended president Yoon Suk Yeol. Investigators want to speak to him about his shock decision to briefly 
 
 declare martial law last month. The warrant had been due to expire on Monday. Officials tried to detain the impeached president last week, but 
 
 pulled back after being blocked by his security detail and soldiers.
 
South Korea's transport minister says he will resign in response to last month's deadly Jeju Air crash. 179 people lost their lives when the Boeing 
 
 plane crash landed and overshot its runway, hitting an embankment and bursting into flames. Seoul's transport ministry says it's working to 
 
 improve the safety of airports landing systems to prevent a similar accident happening in the future.
 
More than 120 people have died after a powerful earthquake struck Tibet. The 7.1 magnitude quake injuring close to 200 people with tremors felt as 
 
 far away as Nepal and Northern India. Chinese state media reporting that rescue teams have been flown in to help locate survivors.
 
And a fast-moving wildfire fanned by powerful winds is threatening homes and businesses in Los Angeles. The city says the Palisades Fire has now 
 
 burned through nearly 800 acres or more than 300 hectares in around three hours. The area between Santa Monica and Malibu is home to around 27,000 
 
 residents. We'll have more on the development in this fire later in the show.
 
For now, a reminder of one of our top stories today. Meta, the parent company of Facebook and Instagram, ending its third-party fact-checking 
 
 program, saying it's been too politically biased. X owner Elon Musk calling Meta's move, quote, "cool."
 
This is one of the significant changes Meta has recently made ahead of the incoming Trump administration. Sara Fisher joins us now from Las Vegas. She 
 
 just spoke to Meta's chief marketing officer at CES. Sara, fantastic to have you on the show. What more context does he provide, and what kind of 
 
 tone did he take?
 
SARA FISHER, CNN MEDIA ANALYST AND MEDIA CORRESPONDENT, AXIOS:  He seemed very supportive, Julia, of Mark's decision. He is saying that this was the 
 
 core of what Facebook's beliefs were many years ago when it launched, to promote free speech, to not be so focused on content moderation. He said 
 
 that Facebook and then subsequently when it became Meta, got away from its original mission. And so, he says that this action today is Meta going back 
 
 to its original roots.
 
But I will say, Julia, I pressed him because one of the questions becomes if there is going to be a Democratic administration, how do we not know 
 
 that you're not going to just swing the pendulum back and go back into overly moderating content? How do you maintain a significant and also 
 
 steady brand when you've now flip flopped a few times?
 
He seems pretty confident that this is the road that Meta is going to continue to take for the foreseeable future. A hands-off approach to 
 
 content moderation.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, but I like that you pressed him on that, that this isn't just as many are perceiving it to be a politically driven decision. And to 
 
 your point, perhaps then if the Democrats get back in at some point in the future, they're then like, oops, OK. we're going to try and moderate once 
 
 again. Did he say this is what consumers want?
 
FISHER:  Yes, exactly. I think that consumers most largely feel like they want to have control over what they see. They don't want any sort of 
 
 government or any sort of major platform coming in. And so, I think consumers largely like this.
 
But I will say, Julia, this is very divided on political lines. On one hand, you have conservatives who have been begging for this for a long 
 
 time. They've argued that their accounts have been shadow banned or censored. On the other, you have more progressive users that say, why am I 
 
 getting this misinformation, this junk in my feed?
 
And I will say, as a platform, this is a little bit of a risk that Meta faces. If you were to side too much with any one side, you risk alienating 
 
 a huge chunk of the American population. This is the market where they make the most money.
 
So, Meta today might be appeasing the new incoming Trump administration. They might be appeasing a large chunk of this country that agrees with that 
 
 conservative outlook on free speech, but it also might be alienating a huge chunk of progressive users, and that's a business risk.
 
CHATTERLEY:  You know, this is so fascinating because I do wonder whether this is a broader direction that media is headed into to a greater extent 
 
 with a greater importance being placed on trust. No -- yes, trust in a person on a platform versus this desire to pursue the truth. And I think 
 
 it's perhaps a trap that mainstream media is falling now into and that people just want to know what's being reported, whether or not it's true or 
 
 not, is a separate question perhaps, they want to know what's out there, and they don't want somebody else hiding things from them, whether they're 
 
 true or false. It's a critically important question.
 
FISHER:  Yes, and the quick thing I'd say on that, Julia, I've been covering Meta's fact-checking efforts since their inception. After 2016, 
 
 they added all these fact-checking partners because they wanted to abdicate themselves of the responsibility of making sure that they were fact-
 
 checking things.
 
They started to get political pressure because they were adding fact- checking partners from the right and from the left. And so, the fact- checking process itself became politicized. This is a very delicate dance move for anybody in media, as you mentioned, in tech. Nobody's got the 
 
 right salt, but I'm very curious to see if Meta is true to its word and they remain consistent with this policy pullback for years to come, \even 
 
 if a new democratic administration were to come into office.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. Trust versus truth. This is the future. Anyway, the president-elect did past comment on this decision. Here's what he had to 
 
 say.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP:  I watched their news conference and I thought it was a very good news conference. I think they've -- honestly, I think they've come a long 
 
 way, Meta, Facebook. I think they've come a long way.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Do you think he's directly responding to the threats that you have made to him in the past?
 
TRUMP:  Yes, probably.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Tick. The president-elect's on board. Sara, to your earlier point.
 
FISHER:  This is the whole thing though, Julia, like Meta is going to have a hard time arguing that this isn't a political move, because look what 
 
 it's done in the past few days. Mark Zuckerberg dined with Trump in Mar-a- Lago on Thanksgiving Eve. They elevated Jill Kaplan, a conservative, to be the head of their Public Affairs Department. They added Dana White, a Trump 
 
 ally, board on Monday.
 
I mean, so for Meta to be able to say that this isn't pandering to Trump, it just feels ludicrous to a lot of people. And clearly, Donald Trump 
 
 thinks that this is him -- them pandering to him, kissing the ring, coming down and really making sure that they develop that relationship.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I mean, all these tech CEOs are falling over themselves. The question I think ultimately is, is this decision improving the platform and 
 
 making it, I don't know, somewhere in the middle to go back to our trust versus truth point versus having a bias in one direction or the other? 
 
 Because I guess that takes it back to what Zuckerberg is arguing.
 
FISHER:  Yes, but quickly, that's not the question Meta is asking. Like, the question Meta is asking is, does this help us, when we are getting 
 
 brought to court, because they're being sued by the FTC in April?
 
You know, they're not -- I don't think viewing this from the truth lens that you and I are. I think they're viewing this as survival as a publicly 
 
 traded company in a capitalist system. Unfortunately, that's just the reality.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I think we know exactly what prison they're looking through this upon. Is it more profitable? I guess that's the question. And do 
 
 investors benefit?
 
FISHER:  Yes, that's always the lens that all of these decisions are made on, Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, I think we know the answer. Sara Fisher, always a pleasure. Thank you. All right. Coming up on "First Move" -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Which one do we like? Oh, this one? Does this look good? Shall we try it? Ready? It's OK. You're putting on. Good boy. OK. Good. Ready?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  That was a fail. And that's me, obviously, and my dog, Romeo, getting ready. Well, at least we tried for the runway with a stylish coat. 
 
 We'll dive into the world of animal apparel with the CEO of Wagwear, who made those jackets. Yes, he did like the puffer. After this. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  We can do it. I know we can. Come on. Gently, gently. Oh, good boy. Yes. How about that? What about that smooch? What do you think? Do we 
 
 like it? How does this feel? Is this good? We're just going to try one because we really -- I'm not sure this is on at all. What do you think 
 
 Spooch?
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, that was Romeo and me trying out some new looks. That shoe got eaten off, as you can just see. It was all in on the orange 
 
 jacket, but those hot pink shoes, or WagWellies as they're known, not so much. These adorable pieces are from Wagwear, a New York based brand that 
 
 focuses on stylish and functional fashions for our furry friends.
 
The company says it's Croc-like WagWellies. It's one of the most popular items with more than 150,000 pairs sold worldwide. And joining us now, 
 
 Wagwear founder and CEO Amy Harlow. Amy, fantastic to have you on the show. I don't know whether you could see that, but we were having a real giggle 
 
 this morning. Just explain how Wagwear began.
 
AMY HARLOW, FOUNDER AND CEO, WAGWEAR:  Wow. Well, thank you for having me. Wagwear began as an idea for a brand for dogs that I felt like there wasn't 
 
 a brand out there for dogs similar to like Levi's or Ray Ban for sunglasses, Levi's for jeans. Like, there wasn't a dog brand. So, back in 
 
 the '90s, when I started it, it was just to set out to do that.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. And you have a fashion catwalk background yourself. So, it was a case of finding something that you wanted to be practical as a dog 
 
 mom for your furry friends, but also to be sort of fashionable and hip, which I think you've done, not that I'm hip or call it any way myself, but 
 
 they're fun, aren't they? And it began as a store in New York.
 
HARLOW:  Absolutely.
 
CHATTERLEY:  But I mean, social and online, your sales are enormous and all over the world. Just talk about how you went from having a store to them 
 
 being accessible all over the world.
 
HARLOW:  Oh, well, so, during COVID, we had to close down. We had a location here in Woodstock, New York, and we had to close it down during 
 
 COVID. And we really just focused ourselves online and just realized that we had a much more global reach online.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
And it came out right around the same time that we were launching our WagWellies. And then, subsequently, our ventilated version for the summer, 
 
 which were quickly coined as dog Crocs online. And there was just a ton of viral fun content that came out from that. And it just really spread like 
 
 wildfire and they just became, you know, very popular. So, it became a really good thing for us.
 
CHATTERLEY:  I mean, just to be clear, there is no affiliation with Crocs, but they are very Croc-like.
 
HARLOW:  Absolutely. No affiliation.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And you even have the charms. I mean, my dog, Romeo, just -- he just loved to chew it, I have to say, and he would have been eating 
 
 those charms off in a second, but I love well behaved dogs. And you also have some pretty famous fans. Oh, look, there we go. There he was in -- I 
 
 don't know whether you could see this, but he's wearing the puffer-like, a cape, and no one is taking that little shoe, that WagWelly away from him 
 
 because he's just holding -- he's holding it now.
 
HARLOW:  Oh, no. He's got it in his mouth. Yes, it does require a little bit of a little bit of training.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, parent training.
 
HARLOW:  You often see the very funny kind of high step. Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY:  And just talk me through the pricing on these. So, for a cape, for sort of an average size dog and for the four little WagWellies, what's 
 
 the price of those?
 
HARLOW:  So, the price of the WagWellies for a set of four is $49. The puffer coats are usually around $75 for the puffer coats. Most of our coats 
 
 run about $75.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. I mean, it's quite expensive. It is -- it's sort of a -- it's a treat, but it's quite expensive.
 
HARLOW:  They can. They -- you know, we really value very high-quality fabric hardware. Like our philosophy is what I would wear if I were a dog. 
 
 So, our materials, we try to use human grade materials and, you know, nothing but the best for our dogs.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Don't worry. I was about to say there will be dog parents -- there'll be dog parents here yelling at the television saying these are our 
 
 babies and their children. And of course, we would spend that on our furry babies.
 
Half of your products, I believe you manufacture in the United States, but you struggled to find producers here. And I know you produce a lot in 
 
 China, which talk to me about the challenges potentially if tariffs hit.
 
HARLOW:  Well, it's definitely a concern. We wanted to produce in the U.S. Like I said, we struggled for 15 years trying to get this product made. 
 
 I've always wanted -- I knew from the beginning that I wanted to do these WagWellies. And it's -- I spent 15 years trying to produce them here in the 
 
 U.S. And it wasn't until I was able to connect with a manufacturer in China that I was able to get molds made and really bring them to market.
 
So, I'm concerned about having to come back to the U.S. Maybe we are able to do it a little bit better now. But you know, I'd be happy to do it if I 
 
 could. It just wasn't really an option.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. So, potentially you just have to -- if there are tariff supplied, you just have to raise prices, if you can't find somebody here 
 
 that can produce for you. I guess that's the bottom line. Or could you try and sort of wear some of the cost? I know it's tough and it's -- there's a 
 
 lot of unknowns at this stage as well. Amy, I appreciate that.
 
HARLOW:  Yes, I would say that. We're quietly waiting to hear what's going to happen. I think a certain amount we can absorb or we'll try to absorb. 
 
 We don't really want to raise the prices. So, you know, we'll hold steady as long as we can.
 
CHATTERLEY:  OK. 30 seconds advice for, I'll put my hand up, useless parents who seem incapable of -- and they are essential at times in the 
 
 winter and when the ground's hot, particularly in the summer as well, to have your doggies wear these things. How do you get them to wear them and 
 
 not just run off eating them?
 
HARLOW:  The best thing to do is just put them on and get them outside because as soon as they get distracted and on with their walk, then they 
 
 will forget that they're wearing them. In the beginning, they don't know, but they can. But once they discover it, they'll be running just like as if 
 
 they didn't have anything on.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, the art of distraction. I should know better. Amy Harlow, fantastic to chat to you. Thank you so much. The founder and CEO of 
 
 Wagwear. I'm going to try again later, don't you worry. Thank you.
 
If you've missed any of our interviews today, they'll be on my X and Instagram pages. You can search for @JChatterleyCNN.
 
Now, still ahead, we'll update you on the wildfire emergency unfolding in Southern California. Thousands have been ordered to evacuate. Powerful wind 
 
 gusts. Flames will have live images and more. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY:  Welcome back to "First Move." And we return to coverage of the wildfires in Southern California. At least two have broken out near Los 
 
 Angeles, fueled by a massive windstorm. Officials say the Palisades Fire is growing, topping 1,200 acres, or nearly 500 hectares now. People, of 
 
 course, being urged to flee. Natasha Chen spoke with one resident. Just take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  This is the worst fire I've ever encountered. I've been within three within a mile and I've never had to get evacuated. So, I 
 
 was really surprised that the fire moved so quickly this time.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY:  And we're joined now by Ariel Cohen, a meteorologist for the National Weather Service in Los Angeles. Ariel, and I know you're in a safe 
 
 space where you are. Just describe what you're anticipating, because clearly this is happening very quickly.
 
ARIEL COHEN, METEOROLOGIST IN CHARGE, WEATHER FORECAST OFFICE LOS ANGELES/OXNARD:  This is a destructive, life-threatening windstorm 
 
 impacting Southern California. Not only are we expecting destructive winds to continue to increase from the San Gabriel Valley, to the San Fernando 
 
 Valley, Santa Monica Mountains, to the Malibu Coast area, these winds will be pushing wildfires along at raging speeds, creating an extremely and 
 
 particularly dangerous situation.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, and people are obviously being told in that area and specifically to evacuate. What are you expecting over the coming hours? 
 
 Because we were talking earlier on the show about the prospect of those wind speeds rising to up to 80 miles per hour, which is clearly 
 
 exacerbating this in the next few hours.
 
COHEN:  We could easily see wind gusts approaching and exceeding 100 miles per hour, not only over the high terrain, but also the nearby foothills 
 
 locations and high valleys. This is going to create a very volatile combination of weather parameters that will be extremely dangerous as we 
 
 head overnight. I can't emphasize it enough, you have to heed all of the warnings. It's a matter of life and death.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes. And so, a reminder to those people that perhaps are watching this from those areas. Ariel, just give us a reminder of the 
 
 people that have to heed those warnings, where they're located and where potential risk spots are over the coming hours, too, because this is very 
 
 important, the warnings that you're mentioning.
 
COHEN:  The area of most destructive winds and particularly dangerous situation, red flag warnings extend from the San Gabriel Mountains to the 
 
 San Gabriel Valley, westward through the San Fernando Valley, also into Eastern Ventura County, over the high terrain to the Simi Valley, and then 
 
 southward across the Santa Monica Mountains, also covering San Fernando Valley area. The Hollywood Hills, Beverly Hills area, and then southward 
 
 all the way to the Malibu Coast, where we have that active, destructive fire ongoing right now in the Palisades area.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
Any fires that break out will have the potential to grow explosively. Everyone has to heed the warnings. If a local law enforcement and emergency 
 
 management tell you need to evacuate, you have to do that immediately. It's a matter of life and death.
 
CHATTERLEY:  Yes, vital, vital advice. Ariel, great to have you on. Thank you so much. Ariel Cohen there from the National Weather Service. We 
 
 appreciate you.
 
OK. And finally, on "First Move." Last month, a zoo in Richmond, Virginia, welcoming a baby pygmy hippo. Well, we can now reveal her name is Poppy. 
 
 She was born in December, just in time for the holidays, and she's already stealing hearts all over the world. Poppy's name was chosen via a poll with 
 
 more than 100,000 fans weighing in, and it honors her mother, Iris. Very cute. I'm struggling not to watch the screen rather than talk to you.
 
And that just about wraps up the show. Thank you for joining us. We'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END