Headline: First Move with Julia Chatterley
Sub-headline: U.S. Congress Certifies Trump's 2024 Election Win; Justin Trudeau Announcing Resignation; Four Killed In Winter Storm Traffic Accidents; Blizzards And Freezing Temperatures Sweep Across The U.S.; Inside Syrian's Chemical Lab; Nippon Steel And U.S. Steel Sues White House; Musk Eyes Europe In New Political Battles; 11 Yemeni Detained Transferred To Oman From Guantanamo Bay; L'Oreal Says It Can Predict Aging And Skin Problems. Aired 6-7p ET

Aired January 06, 2025 - 18:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[18:00:00]
 
JULIA CHATTERLEY, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: It's 8:00 a.m. in Tokyo, 3:00 p.m. in Los Angeles, and 6:00 p.m. here in New York. I'm Julia Chatterley. 
 
 And wherever you are in the world, this is your "First Move."
 
And a warm welcome to "First Move," as always. And here's today's need to know. Comeback confirmed. U.S. Congress certifying Donald Trump's 2024 
 
 election win. Trudeau taps out, the Canadian prime minister announcing his resignation amid falling support and U.S. tariff tremors. Storm shocker. 
 
 Cancelled flights, thousands without power and traffic chaos as blizzards and freezing temperatures sweep across the U.S. And a facial fix, the tech-
 
 based test that L'Oreal claims will help save your skin without the guesswork. That conversation and plenty more coming up.
 
But first -- 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: The whole number of the electors appointed to vote for president of the 538. Within that whole number, the 
 
 majority is 270. The votes for president of the United States are as follows, Donald J. Trump of the State of Florida has received 312 votes. 
 
 Kamala D. Harris -- 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Vice President Kamala Harris confirming Donald Trump won the 2024 election after a joint session of Congress counted the electoral 
 
 votes. Trump saying on Truth Social, quote, "Congress certifies our great election victory today. A big moment in history. MAGA."
 
A very different feel on Capitol Hill today amid much tighter security compared with the scenes of violence and protest on this day four years 
 
 ago. Stephen Collinson joins us now. Stephen, great to have you with us. The certification of the most stunning political comeback, I think, in U.S. 
 
 history, hard to imagine after the scenes of chaos four years ago that Trump would be back and arguably more powerful than he was, what, eight 
 
 years ago when he won before. I guess if you support him, though, you feel this is just.
 
STEPHEN COLLINSON, CNN POLITICS SENIOR REPORTER: Yes, and the voters delivered their verdict and that's what happens in a democracy. It's true 
 
 that four years ago tonight, it would have been absolutely impossible to believe that Donald Trump would be standing there today having been 
 
 certified as the winner of the next election.
 
I think it tells us a lot about the Republican Party. It tells us that the presidency of Joe Biden, if its main goal was to purge Trumpism from the 
 
 United States for good, has been a failure, whatever the other achievements of the sitting president are. But in a way, today was a validation of 
 
 democracy that Trump deprived Americans of four years ago, that there was a peaceful transfer of power. 
 
That is one message that the Democrats are trying to send today, even though it was a very tough day for Vice President Kamala Harris, who had to 
 
 certify her own defeat and a bitter, bitter day for Democrats who basically saw Trump and Mike Johnson, who you see there, the speaker of the house, 
 
 who is one of the foremost proponents of the election fraud lies four years ago, seeing them in their moment of triumph.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, I like the way you put it that this is, in some way, a reaffirmation of democracy. America chose this, and this is Donald Trump's 
 
 Washington today, and it's a reminder for the Democrats, to your point, that they couldn't do better. Now what? Because the president-elect has 
 
 promised to pardon the January 6th rioters on day one. Is that expected now, Stephen?
 
COLLINSON: I think it's expected that he will pardon at least some of them, because he said so on the campaign trail. The question is, do they all get 
 
 out? Do rioters who are convicted of violence against police officers, for example, get out? President-Elect Trump has something of a dilemma because 
 
 the idea of pardoning January the 6th miscreants is not very popular. So, he doesn't necessarily want to get off on the wrong foot with many people.
 
But I think one reason why this was so better for Democrats is not just because they were looking at what happened four years ago and feeling that 
 
 there -- this was somehow unjustified and Trump wasn't brought to justice. There was a real feeling that Trump won't suddenly see what happened today 
 
 and be inspired to promote democracy and the constitution.
 <br>[18:05:00]
 
There is every expectation because of his past history and what he said on the campaign trail and the people who chosen for his cabinet that he will 
 
 be even more of a test to the rule of law and the constitution in his second term than he was in his first.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, and as you put it, if the point of the Biden presidency was to expunge the threat of Trump, then by that count, it was a failure, 
 
 and that was certainly out in front center today. Stephen Collinson, thank you so much for that.
 
COLLINSON: Cheers.
 
CHATTERLEY: Now, the end of an era, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau stepping down after nearly a decade in power.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JUSTIN TRUDEAU, CANADIAN PRIME MINISTER: This country deserves a real choice in the next election. And it has become clear to me that if I'm 
 
 having to fight internal battles, I cannot be the best option in that election.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Now, he's been struggling with major challenges, including the resignation of his longtime ally, Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland, and 
 
 incoming U.S. President Donald Trump's tariff threats.
 
Following his announcement, Trump saying, quote, "If Canada merged with the U.S., there would be no tariffs, taxes would go way down, and they would be 
 
 totally secure from the threat of the Russian and Chinese ships that are constantly surrounding them together. What a great nation it would be."
 
Paula Newton joins me now. Paula, you could tell us how Canadians might feel about becoming the 51st State of America, but this was certainly an 
 
 unceremonious end. I remember well, Trudeau mania when it all began. And this did today feel like a case of jump before you're pushed.
 
PAULA NEWTON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, and that too was Trudeau mania 2.0, right? Because his father was the long-term serving prime minister. I mean, 
 
 look, in their own ways, both President-Elect Donald Trump and Justin Trudeau brought star power, but Trudeau was the antithesis of anything 
 
 MAGA. And to that end, and that seems to have been some of his undoing.
 
I mean, look, it was a downbeat prime minister. I have never seen him that way in almost a decade of covering him. He did go in today saying that, 
 
 look, I'm a fighter and every bone in my body tells me to fight. This time, Julia, his own party told him, we just don't want you in the ring.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
TRUDEAU: I intend to resign as party leader, as prime minister.
 
NEWTON (voice-over): Canada's Justin Trudeau announced he would step down as both Liberal Party leader and prime minister when his party chooses a 
 
 new leader. Trudeau ending months of turmoil about his future with a reluctant goodbye.
 
One of the country's youngest ever leaders, Trudeau promised to usher in sunny ways when he was first elected in 2015. But nearly a decade later, 
 
 members of his own party recently joined a growing chorus of Canadians who wanted the sun to set on his tenure.
 
Amid plummeting opinion polls, Trudeau's Liberal Party was widely expected to lose a general election later this year if he remained as prime 
 
 minister. Still, for months, he said he had no intention of resigning.
 
TRUDEAU: Like most families, sometimes we have fights around the holidays. But of course, like most families, we find our way through it.
 
NEWTON (voice-over): Despite calls to resign from his own members of parliament, Trudeau insisted that he was best placed to fight Canada's 
 
 corner as President-Elect Donald Trump threatens 25 percent tariffs on all goods imported from Canada, which is home to about 40 million people and 
 
 one of America's largest trading partners.
 
But last month, even Trudeau's finance minister and longtime ally, Chrystia Freeland, resigned from his cabinet, leaving him on even shakier ground 
 
 with a blunt resignation letter accusing the prime minister of using costly political gimmicks at the expense of Canada's fiscal health. Freeland added 
 
 that the government needed to start pushing back against America First economic nationalism.
 
A former high school teacher and the eldest son of Pierre Trudeau, one of Canada's most well-known prime ministers, Trudeau was elected three times. 
 
 He became a poster child for the country's progressive agenda on the global stage, seen as an antidote to Trump during the incoming U.S. president's 
 
 first term.
 
His government pursued policies on alleviating child poverty, gender equity, cutting middle class taxes, and the legalization of cannabis. And 
 
 while he was generally praised for his handling of the pandemic, voter sentiment has soured since. High inflation, an affordable housing crisis, 
 
 and an increase in legal immigration have tested Trudeau's government.
 
TRUDEAU: We continue to handle migration seriously.
 
NEWTON: And will that include taking migrants that sometimes even present themselves at the southern border or taking migrants directly from the 
 
 United States?
 
TRUDEAU: Canada's always willing to do more. We just need to make sure we're doing it in responsible, proper ways to continue to have our citizens 
 
 positive towards immigration as Canadians always are.
 <br>[18:10:00]
 
NEWTON (voice-over): Now that Trudeau is resigning, once a new Liberal Party leader is in place, an election will follow by summer or early fall 
 
 at the latest.
 
Former Bank of England Governor Mark Carney, Chrystia Freeland, and Foreign Minister Melanie Joly are all considering a run for the Liberal leadership.
 
Pierre Poilievre's opposition Conservative Party currently holds a more than 20 percent lead over the Liberals in polling averages.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
NEWTON (on camera): So, all eyes now on that Liberal Party leadership race and Pierre Poilievre, the Conservative leader, as I just said, but also too 
 
 on President-Elect Donald Trump and his continued trolling. I don't think he's mentioned Canada in the last few weeks, Julia, without calling Canada 
 
 the 51st state and calling Justin Trudeau the governor.
 
I will warn that this really can track both ways. It's certainly stiffened spines, as I've said before, and resolve in Canada when the president-elect 
 
 does that. But so too, just a little bit of backbiting here, Ontario Premier Doug Ford today in reacting to this and Trudeau's resignation said, 
 
 OK, maybe we'll tell the president-elect we'll take Alaska, perhaps Minnesota offer to bring them our way.
 
CHATTERLEY: It's going to get lively.
 
NEWTON: Buckle up. My friend, buckle up.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes, buckle up. We shall. Thanks, Paula. Great to have you. Paula Newton there. All right. Here in the United States, at least four 
 
 people have been killed in traffic accidents brought on by extreme winter conditions. In total, more than 60 million people have been under weather 
 
 alerts as a storm system impacts huge swathes of the country, particularly the Northeast and the Midwest.
 
Maryland is just one of the areas feeling the effects of blizzard conditions at this moment. However, the worst of the snow should soon be 
 
 over though. To make matters worse, much of the country will be hit with dangerously low temperatures on Tuesday, so then the snow freezes. Gabe 
 
 Cohen has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GABE COHEN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A deadly winter storm creating dangerous conditions tonight for tens of millions of Americans. Snow, 
 
 sleet, and freezing rain blanketing large areas of the country, from Kansas to the nation's capital.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The most important thing that people can do today is to stay home and to stay safe.
 
COHEN (voice-over): Thick ice and gusty winds toppling trees and power lines, knocking out power to hundreds of thousands of homes. On the road, 
 
 at least four people killed in crashes and hundreds of motorists stranded amid extreme conditions. And misery for flyers, with thousands of flights 
 
 either delayed or cancelled.
 
In D.C., at least five inches of snow have already piled up, the most the district has seen in at least three years. And there may be more to come.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're asking people to stay off the streets as much as possible.
 
COHEN (voice-over): Many schools across the region are closed, and federal government offices shut down in D.C. But not everyone is staying home.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I have been telling people I am going to cross country ski on the National Mall.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's a nice day for a walk, you know, there's no traffic. So, it makes it easy to kind of walk around everywhere and, yes, 
 
 just enjoy it.
 
COHEN (voice-over): After the snow moves out, dangerous cold is moving in. An arctic blast bringing bone chilling temps to the same areas just 
 
 starting to dig out from the snow.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. Let's get more now on what people can expect from this storm system in the coming hours. Chad Myers is at the World Weather Center 
 
 for us. Chad, happy Monday. It's five or six inches we can cope with, but a lot of places have had a lot more than that.
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Absolutely. Places in Kansas, in the middle part of the country, have picked up a half a meter for sure. I just want to 
 
 take you back here. This is the Washington Zoo. The pandas here in the Washington Zoo and, oh, did they have fun today.
 
Now, they're wearing a fur coat for a reason. They're not cold. And you can tell by the fun that they're having on the pictures here that they were 
 
 excited about five inches of snow. So, we'll take that when we can get it.
 
It's still snowing in some spots here for Delaware here, picking up a foot of snow, 12 solid inches. But the story is that it went all the way from 
 
 the Atlantic Coast and it's all the way back to Kansas in one solid stripe of about 12 inches. A foot of snow in all of those places. And it's still 
 
 snowing on those pandas, although they're probably inside now.
 
The snow still coming down here about from Philadelphia down through D.C., the B.W. Parkway, I-95 getting a little slick at this point with all this 
 
 new snow coming in. Still have watches and warnings, still have almost 300,000 people without power. And then, the cold air comes in behind it.
 
We're not record-breaking cold, but certainly, temperatures will be somewhere around five, seven degrees Fahrenheit. So, somewhere in the 
 
 ballpark of 15 degrees below zero Celsius. So, it will be cold and it will be windy. Chicago will be cold. Chicago will be windy. And then, the next 
 
 storm system that we have our eye on gets here Wednesday and Thursday with some snow for Texas. They don't typically do that well driving around in 
 
 Texas in the snow, neither will Arkansas.
 <br>[18:15:00]
 
Eventually, some ice here possibly for Atlanta, Georgia and then moving up the East Coast. The good news is, Julia, with this next storm it is not 
 
 nearly as potent. We're talking about three to five inches at most in the worst spots at least for now could get worse. It's certainly cold enough. 
 
 That's what we have now for the rest of these storms that come by for a while. The cold is here. Will the moisture continue? Will we still have 
 
 enough energy to make mountains or piles of shoveling snow? Julia.
 
CHATTERLEY: We so will because we love snow.
 
MYERS: I know you do.
 
CHATTERLEY: And the really great news is -- I know you know, and you've also caused a pandemonium on my show because I was very excited to share 
 
 pandas later on in the show. So, there's going to be a double helping of pandas on the show.
 
MYERS: Oh, good.
 
CHATTERLEY: To you Chad. Great to chat to you, sir. We'll see you soon. Thank you.
 
MYERS: See you tomorrow.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. Let's move on. As the inner workings of the fallen regime of President Bashar al-Assad begin to emerge, there's a new push in Syria 
 
 to examine secret facilities. In one investigation, our Jomana Karadsheh went inside a suspected chemical lab. Here's her exclusive reporting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOMANA KARADSHEH, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): They're gearing up for one of the most dangerous missions in Syria. And they have to be prepared. 
 
 Exposure could be lethal.
 
FAROUQ HABIB, DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER, WHITE HELMETS: While we are searching for these secret prisons, we received information that there could be 
 
 hazardous materials in this facility.
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over): The White Helmets volunteer rescue group suspects this is a chemical weapons research site. We joined their hazmat team at a 
 
 former state security building. They wanted us to witness what they find. Throughout the war, the regime and its Russian backers have repeatedly 
 
 tried to discredit them. With respirators fixed and suits sealed, the final touch, chemical agent detector patches.
 
With oxygen tanks and detection devices, these two men lead the way into the unknown. They have to move carefully and methodically. Looters got here 
 
 first. Every surface is scanned for traces of chemicals. A suspected weapons delivery system sits in the middle of this room, but no traces 
 
 detected so far. Their advanced team already told them it's the upper floors where they need to be.
 
Slowly, they move upstairs. Step by step, on every floor and in every room, they're searching for clues. What was the Assad regime doing here? Evidence 
 
 of what appears to be a secret chemical lab emerges. In several rooms, they find countless labeled bottles and containers filled with chemicals.
 
KARADSHEH: Their main mission today is to document, try and find out as much as they can about the chemicals they're finding in this facility.
 
Karadsheh (voice-over): Something sets off the detector. We take pictures for experts to review the reading. It says TIC, Toxic Industrial Chemical. 
 
 He checks his patch and carries on. Until another alarm goes off. They realize it's one of the oxygen tanks. He has to get out fast.
 
It's becoming clear they were experimenting with dangerous substances here. Tucked in the middle of a residential Damascus neighborhood, the local 
 
 Druze community had long suspected this was more than just a state security building. As regime forces withdrew, people rushed in to see what was 
 
 really inside this feared compound.
 
It was a local pharmacist who sounded the alarm, and the white helmets were called in. Securing sites like this one is critical amid a post- regime 
 
 vacuum and a volatile security situation.
 
HABIB: These materials could not only pose a risk to the civilians in neighboring areas, but also if they fall into wrong hands, they could be 
 
 used elsewhere and pose a threat to other communities and maybe other countries.
 
KARADSHEH (voice-over): CNN shared images with four experts. Based on that snapshot, they all agree this was a chemical lab. It's unclear whether it 
 
 was used for chemical weapons research or something else, including analysis of environmental threats or illicit drugs, among other 
 
 possibilities.
 <br>[18:20:00]
 
Strewn about, they find what they describe as a trove of documents. One we can't independently verify mentions communications between the facilities 
 
 command and a Russian military officer. Preserving documents like this is now part of the team's mission. They also find weapons, storage and 
 
 production rooms. We see all the necessary components to build modified and improvised explosive devices.
 
HABIB: It was shocking how the previous regime used all these government institutions as multipurpose facilities.
 
KRADSHEH (voice-over): Down this dark and dingy cockroach-infested basement is perhaps the most dangerous discovery so far. Almost every surface and 
 
 sealed container sets off the detector. It registers lewisite, a blistering chemical agent. Experts say it could be a false positive. Unlike everything 
 
 here, it will need additional testing. The fall of the regime may be uncovering what until this day had been hidden in the dark, leaving Syria 
 
 and the world a dictator's toxic legacy.
 
Jomana Karadsheh, CNN, Damascus.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. Coming up on "First Move," stealing for a fight, Nippon Steel and U.S. Steel suing the White House to keep their troubled merger 
 
 alive. But should they have hope? We'll discuss next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." Monday momentum for tech topping today's Money Move. The NASDAQ and the S&amp;P posting solid gains, thanks at 
 
 least in part to cheaper chips. NVIDIA, Broadcom and other A.I. chip giants rallying after key industry players said demand remains strong.
 
NVIDIA shares rallying more than 3 percent to fresh all-time highs, all this ahead of NVIDIA CEO Jensen Huang's keynote address at the CES Trade 
 
 Show in Las Vegas in a few hours' time. NVIDIA tends to make big announcements at the event. So, we'll watch that closely.
 
And one of Monday's big stock winners was live streaming firm Fubo TV. It shares spiked 251 percent. Take a look at that. On news that it's joining 
 
 forces with Disney's Hulu Plus.
 <br>[18:25:00]
 
And across Asia, China softer, despite an encouraging read on factory activity there. The Japanese Nikkei kicking off 2025 trading also with 
 
 losses down 1.4 percent. South Korean stocks bucking the trend up almost 2 percent. That's a bounce back.
 
In other business news, two giants in the world of steel will fight for their merger deal. U.S. Steel and Nippon Steel now suing the Biden 
 
 administration for blocking their more than $14 billion tie up. Their lawsuit claims it's being held up for political reasons. The White House 
 
 argues it poses a national security threat.
 
President-Elect Donald Trump is against the merger, too, saying on Truth Social Monday, why would they want to sell U.S. Steel now when terrorists 
 
 will make it a much more profitable and valuable company? Wouldn't it be nice to have U.S. Steel, once the greatest company in the world, lead the 
 
 charge towards greatness again? It can all happen very quickly.
 
Terry Haines is the founder of Pangea Policy, and he joins us now. Terry, Happy New Year. I think you have to have some sympathy for both of these 
 
 companies because I've failed to find any analyst out there that doesn't believe this decision's being made on political grounds. The problem to the 
 
 point that the president-elect made on Truth Social is I don't see the next administration or a Justice Department under them acting in any different 
 
 manner. Agree or disagree?
 
TERRY HAINES, FOUNDER, PANGEA POLICY: Well, I'll take the third rail, Julia. And Happy New Year. The -- Trump today, I think underscored kind of 
 
 what I've been saying on this since last Thursday night, which is essentially a couple of things. One is that he wants to say he's against 
 
 the Nippon deal, but I think he's going to take another look at it because he's very interested in making sure that the steel industry not only 
 
 survives in the United States, but thrives in the United States.
 
And so, I think he's going to look at, first of all, at Biden's decision to see what, if any, national security concerns about Nippon Steel he might 
 
 have had. But secondly, I think -- and this is being teased now by a lot of people who were in Trump's orbit, I think he's going to look at not only 
 
 keeping U.S. Steel around, but trying to make sure that investment gets pushed in the direction of U.S. Steel, specifically in the steel industry 
 
 generally.
 
What Trump is really interested in here is making sure that the defense industrial base survives and thrives, and you can't have a healthy defense 
 
 industrial base without steel.
 
CHATTERLEY: So, you think pragmatist is going to come into play here, and he's going to say, look, Japan is an ally and U.S. Steel is arguing that 
 
 for various reasons, it needs their money. And if you're being a pragmatist in this case, you let the deal go through, because, I mean, the two 
 
 companies are saying that they want the CFIUS, the Committee on Foreign Investment, to look at this again. I mean, they caved to political 
 
 pressure, it seems, under the Biden administration to allow the president to make a decision on this.
 
Do you think this harms sort of inward investment opportunity in the United States and sort of plays to your point that you think perhaps the next 
 
 administration will have a look at this and say, you know, maybe it should go ahead?
 
HAINES: Well, I think the answer there is it depends, frankly. The -- I don't think that based on what Trump has been saying, anyway, I don't think 
 
 Nippon's completely out of the money and out of the deal. But I also think that what you're going to get on whether it be steel or some other 
 
 component. I mean, if we were talking chips, you know, as you just were a minute ago, we'd be having a very different sort of conversation where the 
 
 president, whether it be Biden or Trump, frankly, would be really pushing to get as much investment into that sector as possible.
 
And so far, that's not being done, but I anticipate that whether it be steel or other components in the defense industrial base, other sectors and 
 
 industries, that Trump and his people are really going to focus on trying to pump up and goose investment in those places where they're needed.
 
CHATTERLEY: Well, I mean, the president-elect is welcomed $100 billion from the SoftBank boss, which is clearly going to go into technologies and these 
 
 far more arguably sensitive national security, sensitive investments, which I find quite fascinating why you would sort of potentially talk about 
 
 blocking this and allowing the other thing, and both the Japanese sort of companies and investments.
 
It sort of goes to what we're expecting and potentially words versus actions on tariffs, Terry. This seems to be at least reporting of a brewing 
 
 fight in the next administration or personnel, certainly the next treasury secretary wanting targeted tariffs and the president-elect suggesting that 
 
 he still wants to at least threaten blanket. Do you think targeted is the way they go ultimately and the threat of blanket prevails as a threat?
 
HAINES: I think what happened -- well, I think what happens, Julia, is, you know, the markets have always wanted this -- the tariff discussion to be, 
 
 you know, kind of all one way or all the other way. I get that. It's human nature. You know, all one way, either it's tariff negotiations and 
 
 gradualism good for markets or, you know, immediate heavy application of tariffs across the board. And that's bad.
 <br>[18:30:00]
 
Tariffs are now national security tool. I mean, they're part of the geopolitical -- the geopolitical warp and woof of the -- of policy. So, 
 
 now, you're going to get a situation where tariffs are going to be much more targeted and Trump, I think, as much as anything else today is trying 
 
 to preserve his options.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. And why wouldn't you if you're going into a negotiation? Terry, great to chat to you, sir. Thank you so much. Happy New Year. Terry 
 
 Haines there.
 
HAINES: Happy New Year.
 
CHATTERLEY: All right. Still ahead, billionaire takes on blighty. Elon Musk on the attack in the U.K., fighting Farage and sparring with Starmer. Are 
 
 the European governments in his sights too? Musk's new political targets, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move" with a look at more of the international headlines this hour. U.S. President Joe Biden visiting New 
 
 Orleans to meet with the families of victims of the New Year's Day terror attack. He also plans to attend a prayer service. An army veteran drove a 
 
 truck into a crowd on the city's iconic Bourbon Street. Fourteen people lost their lives and dozens of others were injured.
 
Russia's ministry of defense says its forces have repelled a Ukrainian counterattack in the southern border region of Kursk. It comes a day after 
 
 Ukraine said it launched a surprise attack. Russia says the response was decisive. CNN cannot verify battlefield reports.
 
And the world's richest man, Elon Musk, has been tasked by President-Elect Trump with helping root out wasteful U.S. government spending, but Musk is 
 
 now setting his political sights yet further afield to the alarm of some in Europe. Among his latest targets, high profile U.K. politicians, including 
 
 Trump supporter Nigel Farage. Nic Robertson has more.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Elon Musk.
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): Elon Musk is dialing up attacks on European politicians. The barbs aimed at Britain 
 
 coming thick, fast, and painful. Using his social media platform X to trash U.K. Prime Minister Keir Starmer for alleged failings in a child abuse 
 
 scandal involving gangs of South Asian men in multiple U.K. cities grooming the vulnerable young girls. That was when Starmer was the U.K.'s chief 
 
 prosecutor more than a decade ago. Starmer is firing back.
 <br>[18:35:00]
 
KEIR STARMER, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: We've seen this playbook many times. Whipping up of intimidation and threats of violence.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Musk's vitriol sharpest against Jess Phillips, the government official charged with safeguarding children, calling her plain 
 
 evil and a wicked creature who should be imprisoned for not sanctioning a nationwide inquiry, but a local one instead.
 
STARMER: When the poison of the far-right leads to serious threats to Jess Phillips and others, then in my book, a line has been crossed.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Musk's inaccurate and sensationalist accusations are catching U.K. politicians off guard. And Musk is also attacking a 
 
 staunch Trump ally, Nigel Farage. Saying Farage doesn't have what it takes to lead his upstart Reform U.K. Party.
 
Farage, the British populist who pushed Brexit just hours before Musk's put down, had counted the tech titan a supporter who might finance his 
 
 fledgling party.
 
NIGEL FARAGE, LEADER, BRITISH REFORM PARTY: The fact that he supports me politically and supports reform doesn't mean I have to agree with every 
 
 single statement he makes on X.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Why the falling out? Possible differences over this man known as Tommy Robinson, a jailed anti-Muslim campaigner who fanned the 
 
 flames of racist riots last summer. Musk praises him. Farage doesn't.
 
U.K. elections are years away, but Musk is now championing some of Europe's more extreme far-right candidates, even over some of the more well-known 
 
 right-wing voices.
 
EMMANUEL MACRON, FRENCH PRESIDENT (through translator): Ten years ago, who would have imagined if we had been told that the owner of one of the 
 
 largest social networks in the world would support a new international reactionary movement and intervene directly in elections, including in 
 
 Germany?
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Musk also supporting the hard right AfD, Alternative for Germany Party, ahead of elections there next month.
 
But Italy is now rewarding Musk's rightward European tilt. The populist right-wing PM, Giorgia Meloni, just visited with President-Elect Donald 
 
 Trump, seemingly nudging a $1.6 billion SpaceX deal with Italy closer to the world's richest man.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHATTERLEY: Thanks to Nic Robertson there. Now, breaking news into CNN. 11 Yemeni detainees at Guantanamo Bay have been transferred to Oman, marking 
 
 yet another detainee transfer in the final days of the Biden administration.
 
In recent weeks, the U.S. has also transferred four other detainees to Kenya, Malaysia, and Tunisia. At least one of the men transferred this week 
 
 was never charged with a crime and has been in custody in Guantanamo Bay for more than 20 years, according to a human rights group.
 
All right. Coming up for us here on "First Move," New Year, old beauty products with the global skincare market expected to top $125 billion. Most 
 
 of us still rely on trial and error to find out what products works best. Now, the cosmetics giants L'Oreal is using technology to take away the 
 
 guesswork. But can it replace the human touch? We'll discuss, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:40:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." Now, figuring out what skincare products we need can be a lifelong journey of trial and error. Lots of 
 
 error in my case. I suspect many bathroom cabinets are filled with expensive products that don't work. And I can speak from plenty of 
 
 experience. And to L'Oreal, which says it's come up with an analysis tool which can spot issues and recommend corrective products. It says it can 
 
 even pick up on skin issues that aren't visible to the eye.
 
The device is a result of a partnership with the Korean start up NanoEnTek. It's been unveiled at CS Tech Show in Las Vegas ahead of a rollout into 
 
 stores in Asia later this year. And joining us now from Las Vegas, Guive Balooch. He's the Global Managing Director for Augmented Beauty and Open 
 
 Innovation at L'Oreal Groupe.
 
Guive, fantastic to have you on the show. I'm all about augmented beauty. Explain to us how the technology works, first and foremost.
 
GUIVE BALOOCH, GLOBAL MB, AUGMENTED BEAUTY AND OPEN INNOVATION, L'OREAL GROUPE: Thank you so much for having me. We're very excited to be here at 
 
 CES unveiling our L'Oreal cell bioprint technology. And as you mentioned, it's really about how to take the guessing out of skincare.
 
Today, what we see on our face has already happened, but it's the biology that will help us predict the future of our skincare and also allow us to 
 
 be able to get the precise products individually for us. And so, this technology uses really a groundbreaking kind of tech that is miniaturized, 
 
 allowing us to measure protein biomarkers underneath the skin where the cells are, and it can help us predict and also know exactly what are the 
 
 right actives that would work for our skin without having to audition anymore.
 
And it's using this lab on a chip type of technology that goes straight into a little tabletop device. And within five minutes, you'll understand a 
 
 predictive analysis of what skincare is right for you.
 
CHATTERLEY: So, you can calculate skin age and how it's aging. But one of the other things that interested me was the idea that you can look at 
 
 somebody's skin and say, look, you're more likely to get larger pores. You're more likely to get age spots the sort of darkening on your skin, 
 
 even if you can't see it at this stage and find ways to prevent it, it's more -- it's about being preventive in terms of skincare versus reactive, 
 
 which I think most of us generally are.
 
BALOOCH: Exactly. It's like really moving from reactive treatment to proactive care. And like today you could see pores or dark spots on the 
 
 surface of the skin, but this technology will tell you in the coming months, in the coming year, what you're the most risk for having. And so, 
 
 this way you can be more proactive and not only treat what you see on the surface, but to treat what your biology will predict will happen in the 
 
 future. And that way people don't really need to guess anymore when it comes to their skin care.
 
It takes time and compliance for skin care to work. So, we want to give people that empowerment and that information so that they can pick the 
 
 right product for their individual biology.
 
CHATTERLEY: How much does one of these things cost? And how do you anticipate them being used? Are these going to be at beauty counters? Are 
 
 people going to own them individually? How do you see it working?
 
BALOOCH: Well, everything that we start, we always start with the professionals. So, we will have this at the beauty counter with one of our 
 
 largest luxury brands that we will unveil in the coming months. It will be launched at the end of this year as a first step. And our goal is to bring 
 
 it to as many of the kind of counters that would, in a way, help the beauty advisers and the skin advisers to give this kind of advice.
 <br>[18:45:00]
 
But in the future, then our goal is to then massify that, bring it to more brands, and then eventually see if we can bring the level of accuracy that 
 
 we have with this technology to people at home as well. And we've done that in the past with other tools. And so, we will take the same approach with 
 
 this one.
 
CHATTERLEY: I'm one of those people who have cupboards full of serums, hyaluronic acids, all sorts of things. And then I met a brilliant plastic 
 
 surgeon who got me down to four or five products and they work really well for my skin and it's never been shinier behind all this crazy makeup.
 
Do you think people end up buying less products? I'm sort of thinking of this holistically for you as a business. And it's not just about the 
 
 technology, it's also about products. If people actually don't need a whole medicine cabinet full of products, they actually end up buying less and 
 
 actually it hurts sales.
 
BALOOCH: I think it's not about buying less or more. It's really about getting the most precise product. I mean, in the end of the day, what we 
 
 want to avoid is having many products that we're auditioning to do the same thing and to make sure that we're choosing the ones that are really 
 
 proactively helping our skin health for the future. And that's going to be good for the bottom line, as long as people get the right product for them.
 
Today, nine out of 10 women are frustrated with their skin care. It's unbelievable that nine out of 10 are frustrated. So, it means that we need 
 
 to give people that biology information so that they can get the more precise product. And then, you will have products that are serums and anti-
 
 aging and moisturizers, but you'll be able to know whether or not actives are biological responders for your biology, and that precision is what 
 
 we're really trying to aim for so that we can take this kind of guessing and auditioning out of the process.
 
CHATTERLEY: OK. Fast forward 10 years, very quickly, I have one minute. We're clearly taking a far more scientific approach to skin care even 
 
 today. What are we doing in 10 years' time that we probably aren't even dreaming about today, my innovation leader?
 
BALOOCH: Oh, wow. OK. Well, I dream a lot about things that we can do in the future, Julia. And I don't know. I think, you know, one of the things 
 
 that I think will happen is we're going to have lots of tools that are miniaturized devices that are powered by A.I. that can like achieve things 
 
 that your hands and fingers can't alone.
 
We're going to have the precise information of everything for our future skin care, our hair care, our hair color, all more precise for our biology, 
 
 because I think in the end of the day, that is what people are demanding. And this is -- they want to have the right products. They want it to be 
 
 right for them. And they want to achieve their dreams and desires and beauty without any barriers.
 
And I think technology will allow us to do that more and more on measurements, but also on tools. And I think we'll see more of that in the 
 
 next time.
 
CHATTERLEY: Go A.I. That's definitely one of the, one of the upsides and reasons to be optimistic. I love it. Sir, fantastic to have you on the 
 
 show. Thank you so much.
 
BALOOCH: Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: Guive Balooch there, the Global Managing Director for Augmented Beauty and Open Innovation at L'Oreal. Thank you.
 
Now, if you smudge your makeup, if you end up with panda eyes, that's the best segue my writer could come up with to get into these pictures. I hope 
 
 I don't have panda eyes. Of two Chinese pandas playing in the snow at their new home in Washington, D.C. Chad did mention it earlier.
 
Bao Li and Qing Bao shown here rolling about in their outdoor zoo enclosure. The bad weather forced the zoo to close, but these two clearly 
 
 in snow heaven, and we agree with that. Look at that joy.
 
Coming up after the break, "Shogun" shines at the Golden Globes, the smash hit for Hulu and FX, dominating the award ceremony over the weekend. One of 
 
 my favorite shows of last year. We'll look at who won what and who wore what best, next.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[18:50:00]
 
CHATTERLEY: Welcome back to "First Move." Marking the unofficial start to Hollywood's awards season, Nikki Glaser was the first standalone female 
 
 host at Sunday's Golden Globes. She wore this amazing golden dress, a custom outfit designed by friend of "First Move" designer Prabal Gurung, 
 
 who you may remember helped me pick a dress for New Year's Eve.
 
Now, back at the awards, the musical thriller "Emilia Perez" won four awards. But diversity also a big winner, especially for Asian 
 
 representation. "Shogun" also picking up four Globes in the TV categories.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JUSTIN MARKS, CREATOR AND SHOWRUNNER, "SHOGUN": Nothing about this show has ever been expected. Truly, it was made on the backs of thousands of 
 
 fearless yeses that we received over the years from our East Meets West cast and crew. Our extraordinary cast standing right here.
 
HIROYUKI SANADA, ACTOR: Thank you, Golden Globes, for recognizing me. I'm so happy to be here with these great nominees.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: Oh, and we love him. OK. Paul Dergarabedian, is senior media analyst at Comscore, which measures audiences across platforms. And he 
 
 joins us now. Paul, welcome to the show.
 
You know, a lot of people, I think, are turned off from watching the Golden Globes because of the presenters over the years. Did this time turn the 
 
 tide? Was Nikki a winner?
 
PAUL DERGARABEDIAN, SENIOR MEDIA ANALYST, COMSCORE: I think she was. I think she had just the right amount of, you know, biting wit without going 
 
 too far. And, you know, there've been other hosts who've gotten very uncomfortable in the way they go after the audience, which is kind of fun 
 
 to watch, but that's sort of like watching a train wreck.
 
This was like the perfect balance. I think Nikki Glaser is just so great. I mean, she is really coming to her own. I mean, she's no overnight success 
 
 doing this for years, but what a great, you know, enormous stage for her to present herself as the sole presenter. I thought she was fantastic. I'd 
 
 give her an A plus. Absolutely.
 
CHATTERLEY: Yes. It was sort of punchy cheeky, but with grace, which I think we've lacked for a number of years.
 
DERGARABEDIAN: That's right.
 
CHATTERLEY: I was going to say let's talk about the big winners because I'm desperately excited to talk about "Shogun." I loved, loved this series and 
 
 we interviewed one of the biggest stars of it as well. I feel like this was very well deserved.
 
DERGARABEDIAN: So, much so. And you know, if you think about it, I mean, they honor the big screen movies, which I absolutely love, but to have a 
 
 long form, epic storytelling that people can become vested in that we just watch and go back to week after week.
 
And I actually prefer to watch these shows on a weekly basis, like we used to instead of binging them. But if you want to bin "Shogun," go for it 
 
 because it's awesome. But I love that this show was honored just as sweeping epic that you can spend hours with great performances. So, well 
 
 deserved.
 
You know, "Hacks" and "Baby Reindeer" also had big nights as well. "Emilia Perez," of course, on the motion picture side. So, just what a night for 
 
 movie goers, audiences for the small screen. And there's so much great -- there's so many great movies out there and television shows, it's a bevy of 
 
 riches for us who just love to watch this kind of stuff.
 
CHATTERLEY: Can we also talk about Demi Moore as well? I read -- and she mentioned it, that she was called by a producer, and it -- she carried it 
 
 with her through her career as a popcorn actress. First Globe that she's won, and it really did feel like a coming of age, of someone who really 
 
 knows how to age.
 
DERGARABEDIAN: Yes.
 
CHATTERLEY: Moment for her.
 
DERGARABEDIAN: I loved her speech. I thought it was so cool. And, you know, to be at this point in her career and be recognized in this way for the 
 
 substance and just for her -- the work that she's done over the years. And yes, popcorn actress. I don't even know what that exactly means. But look, 
 
 at she's hanging in there and has -- and is thriving right now. So, whoever told her that, well, you know, who's eating the popcorn now? I think it's 
 
 Demi Moore and she's enjoying it.
 
CHATTERLEY: She who laughs last, laughs longest. And quite frankly -- 
 
DERGARABEDIAN: Exactly.
 
CHATTERLEY: -- putting bottoms in seats now at cinemas is tough. So, it's a compliment today, even if it wasn't back then.
 <br>[18:55:00]
 
Paul, always a pleasure, sir, to have you on the show. Thank you so much.
 
DERGARABEDIAN: Great to be here. Thank you.
 
CHATTERLEY: Senior media analyst at Comscore. Happy New Year, sir. Great to chat to you.
 
DERGARABEDIAN: Happy New Year.
 
CHATTERLEY: Now, I love this story. Have you ever been in a taxi and suspected it's taking the longest route? Pity Mike Johns, whose journey to 
 
 Scottsdale, Arizona airport took an unexpected turn by literally going around a car park in circles. Just -- we can pick up the action where 
 
 exasperated he gets Waymo customer service on the phone.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MIKE JOHNS, EXASPERATED DRIVERLESS TAXI PASSENGER: Yes, I got a flight to catch. Why is this thing going in a circle? I'm getting dizzy. It's -- look 
 
 at what it's doing.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I understand. I'm really, really sorry, Mike. We're currently working with the situation of the vehicle. Is it circling around 
 
 a parking lot, right?
 
JOHNS: It's circling around a parking lot.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
CHATTERLEY: You'll be pleased to know he did manage to get the car to stop, eventually using the Waymo app. Let's hope he wasn't overcharged. And 
 
 you'll also be pleased to know he did catch that flight that he urgently needed to get to the airport for. Phew.
 
That just about wraps up the show. Not all technology is perfect. Thanks for joining us. I'll see you tomorrow.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:00:00]
 
END