Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: At Least 10 Dead In New Orleans After Truck Slams Into Crowd; FBI Investigating Attack On New Orleans Crowd As Act Of Terrorism; White House: Biden Has Been Briefed On "Mass Casualty Incident". Aired 9:30-10a ET

Aired January 01, 2025 - 09:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[09:32:39]
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN ANCHOR:  And we continue to follow the breaking news out of New Orleans. A federal law enforcement official tells CNN that the suspect in the deadly overnight attack in the French quarter is dead. The FBI is investigating possible explosive devices at the scene where police say at least ten people were killed and dozens injured when a man and a pickup truck intentionally slammed into a crowd on Bourbon Street. 
 
It happened just after 3:00 a.m. local time, when so many people were out. They were celebrating the New Year. Just imagine that the street was packed with revelers, and then the suspect comes in with his pickup truck. As one official said, he was hell bent on creating carnage. 
 
There was a local news reporter who was on the scene, and that reporter became emotional as she reported on the horrific attack. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CASSIE SCHIRM, WDSU REPORTER:  I'm heartbroken. I really am heartbroken. What were seeing right now, because we are still seeing red light tarps covering things that are down Bourbon. That's why the police officers are back now in front of us. I'm -- it's just -- it's just awful. A lot of people are just waking up to this. Some people have been out of their hotels this entire time because they could not even get back to their hotels, because everything has been roped off. 
 
So we have a lot of people that are just standing by, just trying to figure out what's going on. Some people are like asking, you know, do you know any of the victims? 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN:  So we're learning now, breaking news, that the FBI is investigating the New Orleans incident as an act of terrorism. 
 
CNN's Paula Reid joins us now. 
 
This is a quick turnaround because the FBI initially said it wasn't. And now they're investigating it as terrorism. PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, it appears
 
 that they're trying to clean up the conflicting messages that we got during briefings earlier today when we were getting mixed messages about whether they considered this a potential act of terrorism. 
 
Now, in a statement just released by the FBI, they said, quote, this morning, an individual drove a car into a crowd of people on Bourbon Street in New Orleans, killing a number of people and injuring dozens of others. The subject then engaged with local law enforcement and is now deceased. The FBI is the lead investigative agency, and we are working with our partners to investigate this as an act of terrorism. 
 
Now, as we talked about earlier, Pamela, some of the confusion around the term terrorism, I think its something that people know it when they see it. But there is a legal definition. And at the federal level, we don't really have a domestic terrorism law that can be cleanly charged. 
 
That's why sometimes they're a little bit careful around using this word. 
 <br>[09:35:01]
 
But here, the FBI coming out with a clear statement, making it crystal clear that they are investigating this as an act of terrorism. Now, since the suspect is deceased, they don't have to deal right now with the issue of filing federal charges. But there are indications the suspect acted intentionally, according to at least one federal law enforcement official. 
 
FBI and police are conducting searches of the vehicle as they seek to determine a motive. Now, the attorney general, Merrick Garland, has been briefed on this, but I think the big question now, Pamela, is whether this person acted alone or whether there's anything else here as they continue to investigate this as an act of terrorism. 
 
BROWN:  Right. It certainly raises more questions on that front. 
 
Paula, thank you so much. Let's bring in Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy now.
 
Senator, thank you for being here with us this morning.
 
We should note that you're in Baton Rouge, nearby to where this awful tragedy happened. I first want to get your reaction to what CNN is learning that the FBI is investigating this as an act of terrorism. 
 
SEN. BILL CASSIDY (R-LA):  Yeah, that's obviously significant. It clearly was an act of terrorism, whether it was official or not. But the fact that the FBI has designated suggests that there might have been somebody who has come from abroad or internally with the specific -- with the specific goal to wound as many as people before as possible, before a high profile event like the Sugar Bowl, in an effort to send a message. The question is, what is that message? 
 
But now that it's being designated an act of terrorism. And by the way, they have the license plates, they know who these people were. That in and of itself is significant. When the FBI is saying its possibly an act of --  
 
BROWN:  Right. I believe at last check, there was one suspect. That suspect is dead, according to police. But of course, it is very early in this investigation, and police are still trying to figure out if there are others tied to this, accomplices. I mean, that that would be, you know, obviously, part of this. 
 
And I'm wondering, given what you just said, are you in touch with authorities? Do you have any more information about the suspect and what happened here? 
 
CASSIDY:  I've had a briefing from the state police. Actually, the Secretary of Homeland Security Ali Mayorkas had called me just when I was logging on for this call. My staff was, requested an FBI briefing for the federal delegation. And so -- and I've been in contact with Mayor Cantrell.
 
So, very much trying to stay in touch. I know that the federal response is going to be immense and vigorous and prompt, but -- but I just texted Mayor Cantrell if there's anything she thought she needed. Of course, we would work to bring it to bear, but I'm positive that the federal response will be tremendous. 
 
BROWN:  Is there any information, new information you can provide us through those calls and briefings that you've received? 
 
CASSIDY:  Unfortunately, no. There are some things that I've learned that are not in the public sphere, but it is a criminal investigation. And I think it's best right now to let the law enforcement agencies release this information, as opposed to somebody speaking just on the -- on the -- on the zoom call. 
 
BROWN:  So you had said that, you know, look, this is really concerning to you because it's now being investigated as an act of terrorism. It was done ahead of the Sugar Bowl tonight. 
 
How confident are you about the safety around the Sugar Bowl tonight there in the city? 
 
CASSIDY:  Extremely confident, extremely confident. The standard operating procedure for a big game like the Sugar Bowl, for a Saints game, for the Super Bowl, is to go through the building, make sure there's nothing there that's wrong, and then to lock it down. 
 
The Sugar Bowl -- the Superdome has been locked down. There is going to be no problem there. 
 
And you can look at the response on the video -- on the earth cam. My gosh, the New Orleans Police Department and probably some state police officers running to the sounds of the gunshot. You just have to be so proud of them. And then Canal Street just filled up with law enforcement. It's going to be like that from now until -- well, for a long time now. BROWN:  Two quick questions for you. One is just -- I want to go back
 
 to the early on in our conversation. You had -- you know, you had used plural. Do you have information indicating that there was more than one suspect at play here? 
 
CASSIDY:  Rather not. I'd rather not reply to that. 
 
BROWN:  Okay. You are a retired surgeon. I want to note for our audience, we have at least 30 people across five hospitals right now dealing with injuries. Help us understand what their condition may be like and what this must be like at the hospitals, this -- this horrible triage situation. 
 
CASSIDY:  You're the correct that I'm a gastroenterologist. My wife is a general surgeon who trained a lot. 
 
BROWN:  Sorry about that. 
 
CASSIDY:  But there's -- no problem. There's a standard operating protocol. There's a level one trauma center affiliated with LSU Med School and Tulane Medical School, and they would be on alert. There would be other hospitals that in the in the surrounding area who similarly would be activated. 
 <br>[09:40:06]
 
And when this occurs in a mass casualty event, they're trained to look at those people who, frankly, can't survive, who are already dead, those who are critical, they would go to the level one, and those who are less critical, they would go to a not a level one trauma center, but one that could provide adequate care for their condition. 
 
New Orleans is prepared for this. We have lots of events and Mardi Gras, Super Bowls, Super Bowls coming up, Final Fours, you name it, Taylor Swift concerts. And so there is a standard protocol that works, that works. And so I am very confident that the medical -- the medical crews across the city were prepared and that the people are receiving all the care they need. 
 
BROWN:  Before we let you go, Senator Cassidy, I just want to ask. I know I've interviewed you before and you know, you've -- you've dealt with loss in your own life that we've talked about. 
 
What do you want to say to the families who are grieving right now, who have lost their loved ones in this horrible mass casualty? And what do you want to say to the people of your state and to the rest of the nation? What do you want them to know? 
 
CASSIDY:  Yeah. So now is the time for us to be strong. The terrorists win if we allow them to strike terror in our heart. They lose when we continue with our lives. 
 
And let it be known if there was terrorism, we shall track them down, and we shall track them down and bring them to justice. That won't help those who are grieving, but our support for those who are grieving is what we can offer them. BROWN:  Senator Bill Cassidy, thank you for your time, and please keep
 
 in touch with us and happy New Year. I know this is not the way you want to start off the New Year. 
 
CASSIDY:  Thank you. Happy New Year. 
 
BROWN:  Thank you. 
 
We're continuing to follow breaking news out of New Orleans. At least ten dead, dozens more injured when a truck slammed into a crowd on Bourbon Street. We're going to have more after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:46:35]
 
BROWN:  Well, the first day of the New Year begins with a deadly incident in New Orleans that the FBI is investigating as an act of terrorism. At least ten people are dead and dozens more injured after a truck drove into a crowd on Bourbon Street. 
 
I want to bring in CNN's senior law enforcement analyst and former Philadelphia police commissioner, Charles Ramsey, and CNN's senior law enforcement analyst and former FBI deputy director, Andrew McCabe. 
 
First to you, Andy, the significance of the FBI changing its tune, first, coming out and saying this is not terrorism, and now releasing a statement saying we are investigating this as an act of terrorism. 
 
ANDREW MCCABE, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST:  Yeah, certainly a little a little bit confusing here in terms of the public messaging piece, I cant really explain why that first statement was made at the first press conference, that it was not an act of terrorism, really. 
 
Typically, in the early stages of investigating an attack like this or an incident like this, you really try to not characterize it as one thing or another. You're trying to leave all possibilities open. But this seems -- 
 
BROWN:  Right, what does it mean now that they're calling it that? They're now saying were investigating it as this? 
 
MCCABE:  I mean, at this point, Pam, it's an undeniable reality. You have someone who intentionally drove into a crowd, exited the vehicle and attacked law enforcement with a firearm, and the possible involvement of an incendiary device, an IED. 
 
So there's no way that's anything other than some sort of act of terrorism. Now, they may not know exactly what flavor at the moment, right? They may not know the political purpose that this attacker had in conducting the attack, but it was very clearly an intentional act. 
 
It's a violent felony committed in the United States, likely for the purpose of -- of intimidating or coercing a population or changing the action of government. That is the definition of terrorism. It's captured in the federal code. And so we -- from just the first look, we know we have many of those
 
 boxes already checked. So it's really just the FBI publicly stating what has been true from the very beginning. I'm sure they began investigating this, thinking that it was very likely an act of terrorism. 
 
BROWN:  Chief Ramsey, how are you seeing this? 
 
CHARLES RAMSEY, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST:  Well, first of all, I agree with Andy. I think it was just a question of being cautious in terms of using that term at this particular point in time. As an investigation progresses, they get more and more information. 
 
According to the information we have now, the offender is dead. So they've had a chance to maybe go through the truck, maybe find some more information on social media, what have you. More and more of a picture starting to come together where they feel comfortable now actually calling it for -- for what it really is. 
 
But the most important thing to me is the fact that, you know, this is just a very -- I mean, it's a heinous crime. I mean, to do something like this, really, the mindset of an individual, whether or not this is something that a copycat from what happened overseas a couple of weeks ago or not. 
 
I mean, all this is information that will start to come together as more and more facts become known. But again, my condolences to the victims families in this particular incident. I mean, this is just a tragedy, one more tragedy that we have to deal with. 
 <br>[19:50:03]
 
No way to start off a New Year, that's for sure. 
 
BROWN:  And, of course, we have the Sugar Bowl tonight there. And you have to wonder how the city is going to handle this mass casualty that it's investigating. Plus, you know, making sure the Sugar Bowl is safe. 
 
I want to ask you, Andy, about my interview I just had with Senator Cassidy of Louisiana. He had been briefed by the DHS secretary and state police and other officials. And it was interesting because he started off the conversation with his answer, talking about multiple people. And as far as we know, CNN's reporting, as far as we know, there's one suspect, right. But, of course, this is early in the investigation. And when I followed up and asked him if there are others, if he knows of others, he said, I would rather not say. And, of course, that -- my antenna went up with that. 
 
What did you make of that? 
 
MCCABE:  Yeah, I think it's certainly possible. The senator was trying to be careful there and -- and that, that, you know, that leads us to make assumptions. 
 
I think the important thing is to know that law enforcement officials and now the FBI is the leading law enforcement entity here, is addressing that directly. 
 
That's what -- that's the -- that's the immediate mystery you have to solve in the aftermath of anything like this. Are we dealing with one person or is there a continuing threat? Are there others? 
 
Are there -- and those others can come in many different forms. It can be people who supported that person with money or training or gave him the vehicle to use, that sort of thing. Or it could be other people who are in an operational posture, people who are prepared to stage follow on attacks, attacks somewhere else in the city, attack somewhere else in the country. 
 
So that's the most important thing for our intelligence and law enforcement folks to figure out. It certainly seems from the careful way that the senator answered your question, he may have gotten some information along those lines. We'll have to -- we'll have to wait and see what they tell us at the next press conference.
 
But it wouldn't surprise me at all if they are already starting to identify people who crossed paths with this attacker, maybe intentionally providing support or otherwise, or just people who came into contact with them, like you can imagine, like if -- if the car was a rented car, you would want to talk to the person who rented it to him. Did that person know why the why this guy was renting the car? All sorts of questions like that. 
 
BROWN:  All right. Charles Ramsey, Andrew McCabe, thank you. We'll talk to you again very soon. 
 
More of our breaking news out of New Orleans after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[09:57:03]
 
BROWN:  Back to our breaking news out of New Orleans. At least ten people are dead and 30 hurt after a driver rammed a pickup truck into a crowd on Bourbon Street. Police say it was an intentional act with the driver trying to inflict as much damage as possible. 
 
A federal law enforcement official tells CNN the suspect is dead, and now the FBI is investigating this as a potential act of terrorism. 
 
Let's bring in CNN, senior White House correspondent Kayla Tausche. 
 
This is not the way we wanted to start off the New Year here. Kayla, what is the Biden administration saying about this? 
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Pam, President Biden is here in Wilmington, Delaware, after a family event last night. He's been spending the morning speaking to local officials and being briefed by his own government agencies. We're told that he called New Orleans Mayor Latoya Cantrell, offering her full federal support as the city deals with this situation and recovers and investigates. And to that end, President Biden has been briefed by senior leadership
 
 at the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as well as his own White House homeland security team. He will continue to be briefed throughout the day. 
 
We expect to see him for the first time this morning in just about an hours time. He is scheduled to depart Wilmington to travel to Camp David for the weekend. We are awaiting any word of potential changes to his schedule, but as of now, that's what we expect. Pam. And it still remains to be seen whether he will choose to deliver remarks on this incident -- Pam. 
 
BROWN:  All right. Kayla Tausche, thanks so much. 
 
And coming up in our next hour, an eyewitness to the horrible tragedy in New Orleans joins us to talk about what they saw. Our coverage of the breaking news continues after the break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)