Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: 10 Dead After Driver Slams Truck Through New Orleans Crowd; Police Investigates New Orleans Attack as Act of Terrorism; Suspect in New Orleans Attack Confirmed Dead. Aired 11-11:30p ET

Aired January 01, 2025 - 11:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[11:00:00]
 
ANNOUNCER:  This is CNN breaking news.
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN ANCHOR:  Well, good morning to you. You are live in the CNN Newsroom. I'm Pamela Brown in Washington.
 
Our breaking news coverage on the deadly attack in the New Orleans continues this hour. The FBI is investigating the deadly incident on Bourbon Street as an act of terrorism. Police say at least 10 people were killed and 35 others injured when a man drove a pickup truck into a crowd early this morning. And you can see in this video, multiple officers running towards the scene as soon as they get the call.
 
Right here. According to the New Orleans Police Chief, the driver was hell-bent on causing carnage. One witness said he was in a bar when people ran in, saying it looked like the driver was going 60 miles per hour on Bourbon Street. Just imagine that, a driver in a pickup truck weighing 4,000 to 6,000 pounds going 60 miles per hour in a crowded street, just running over people.
 
The suspect has been confirmed dead. Investigators have been looking into these possible improvised explosive devices at the scene as well. And last hour, I spoke to Congressman Troy Carter who represents the area about what he's hearing from officials.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. TROY CARTER (D-LA):  They appear to be a lone actor at this point. Yet, we are being very cautious to make sure that we are exploring and investigating every point to make sure that the villain that has been taken down by police officers that he was in fact alone in his actions and securing the area to make sure that any other bombs or information or threats have been detonated. You may have seen bombs that have gone off in other parts of the quarter. Those were detonated by law enforcement.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN:  See, that's Ryan Young and Paula Reid are following the story. Ryan, to you first. There's a big question about the security there, right? And I think we have some video showing that the orange and white flimsy barriers that were there at the scene that an eyewitness said that was all there was and that anyone could drive over that. What more do we know about the security around this and what officials are looking into right now?
 
RYAN YOUNG, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Well, there's going to be a lot of conversation about that in the next coming hours. And we know with the Sugar Bowl being played, the Super Bowl is going to be played there later on this year. A lot has been put into getting this ready for people to be out there on that street.
 
And of course, the description of people driving around that barricade and him being dead set on hitting people is just so troubling to hear. We have some video that we'll show you. We blurred some of the images because it's so difficult to look at of some of the carnage that was left behind.
 
And when you did that interview last hour, when you're talking to that witness, it was so hard to listen to him describe all of the all the bodies that were left behind, and people who are in obvious pain or who could not be helped. Take a listen to this eyewitness who just talked to one of our affiliates a short time ago about the description of the pain and the carnage that was left behind.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
I saw lots of fireworks and then I laid down and I was watching them from my bed and I heard, maybe they were going off for quite some time. They didn't stop it at midnight. So, I thought maybe it was like the final, whatever you call it, the grand finale. It was just loud, something really loud. And then, I heard more fireworks.
 
I don't know what it was, but apparently it wasn't fireworks. It was right outside our window. I don't know why. I guess I should expect it these days, but it's sad. Very sad.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
YOUNG:  Yes, you could understand the pain. One of the things that's happened here, especially when you're on social media, a lot of people are looking over their balconies and seeing what happened below and they're taking video of what was been left behind.
 
We do know they have found some IEDs and they were doing some explosive charges on those. We also know investigators are looking into just where this truck came from. And of course, there's video circulating of officers surrounding a white truck out there. We have not confirmed all this video right now. We know that news conference is within the next hour. We're hoping to get more information then.
 
But then, you have the officers who were also shot. We know two of them are in stable condition right now at the hospital. Haven't got an update about whether or not they were able to return fire to the suspect. But so many questions so shortly after this, but a lot of people talking about they will never forget the images of what happened out there because it was so painful to watch and experience. Pamela.
 <br>[11:05:00] BROWN:  Yes, I just keep thinking about that eyewitness I spoke to in the last hour. We're going -- to run that sound very soon because he unfortunately saw what happened just before in the aftermath. Paula, what more do we know about this suspect?
 
PAULA REID, CNN CHIEF LEGAL AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Pamela, law enforcement officials say they believe this suspect acted intentionally. Now, in addition to that one suspect who was killed at the scene, they're also looking at any other associates or anyone else who may have been involved in this. That's a standard step in any investigation of this kind.
 
We've learned that they're specifically looking into any possible connections the suspect may have had to the State of Texas. We know from officials that they do have the license plate number for this vehicle. So, that's going to be a key piece of evidence as they continue to pursue any additional leads.
 
Now, the FBI is heading up this investigation, and they have noted that this is now being looked at as an act of terrorism. In a statement, they said, quote, "This morning, an individual drove a car into a crowd of people on Bourbon Street in New Orleans, killing a number of people and injuring dozens of others. The subject then engaged with local law enforcement and is now deceased. The FBI is the lead investigative agency, and we are working with our partners to investigate this as an act of terrorism."
 
Now, earlier today, there were some conflicting messages from various law enforcement agencies about whether this was or was not terrorism. When it comes to the FBI, they look for certain factors before they give it that label. So, that just has to do with sort of technicalities. We, of course, heard from lawmakers and other officials who say, of course, that this was terrorism. But when it comes to the FBI officially putting that in a statement, that is significant because they look for certain criteria before making that declaration.
 
Now, Attorney General Merrick Garland has been briefed on this incident in a statement. He said, quote, "My heart is broken for those who began their year by learning people they love were killed in this horrific attack, and my prayers are with the dozens who were injured, including the New Orleans Police Department officers who risked their lives to save others."
 
Now, the FBI is sending resources to New Orleans, including evidence teams from Quantico, Virginia, which of course helped them review some of the evidence they've gathered to maybe get more information about exactly what happened here.
 
BROWN:  And what more do we know about these explosive devices found on the scene as well, Paula?
 
REID:  Yes, this is really interesting. So, they are investigating possible improvised explosive devices. They're working to confirm if these were actually viable or not. This is also likely one of the factors that contributed to the FBI designating this as a terrorism investigation. So, that's something we're definitely going to be looking at in the next briefing that they have to see if they have any additional information about that because it really adds a whole another dimension to this attack.
 
BROWN:  All right. Thank you so much, Ryan Young and Paula Reid. Appreciate it. Let's bring in CNN Senior National Security Analyst Juliette Kayyem and former NYPD Lieutenant Darrin Porcher.
 
First to you, Juliette, I just want to go back to the timeline here. You know, most revelers were out in this area at midnight, right, celebrating the New Year. This event happened at 3:15 in the morning and there were many, many casualties, 10 dead, more than 30 injured. The barriers, we keep showing this because I'm just struck by this, were -- appears to be those flimsy orange and white barriers according to the eyewitness and according to video that we have. What do you make of all this? What are the big questions you have?
 
JULIETTE KAYYEM, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST AND FORMER ASSISTANT HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY:  So, there's going to be -- yes, so there's going to be an assessment on what the planning and preparation was. And the questions that will be raised are first, you know, was the city deploying or utilizing different security measures because of upgrades or other critical infrastructure that may have made Bourbon Street more vulnerable.
 
The second, and the one that is always going to be true is at some stage resources are deployed. And then, according to whatever the plan is, when the threat is viewed as less extreme than it was, so let's say 3:00 a.m., the resources are then let loose. It is just basically surge and then a drawdown. That is going to be particularly true in New Orleans, which is now looking to a large event tonight with the Sugar Bowl.
 
So, we have to just see what that planning was -- what is. And we're not doing this for blame. It's -- one is, we -- all these cities have to learn. I know, given my works, you know, some cities essentially closed down until January 7:00 or 8:00 a.m. the next day, just simply knowing that the vulnerable -- people are just out and, you know, partying and not -- and need more law enforcement assistance and protection than they normally do on New Year's Eve.
 
So, New Orleans is going to have to just figure -- tell us what that planning was, what the drawdown was. And then did this perpetrator, the criminal, did he take advantage of a vulnerability that he saw because things were not -- security devices were not deployed. That's my big operational question. We've got the motivation one as well.
 <br>[11:10:00]
 
BROWN:  Of course. And to bring you in on that, Darrin, as someone who's been with the NYPD, tell us a little bit about your experience in that regard, providing security for these, you know, big events and what it is like in the overnight hours and what typically happens as we try to learn more. And also, the suspect. I was just told by this Louisiana congressman, that he was likely a lone actor from the area and had Texas license plates. What can we glean from all of this? DARRIN PORCHER, FORMER NYPD LIEUTENANT:  When we look at the area of Bourbon Street appears is that they were going through an infrastructure upgrade. So, we had a series of balance that were in place that were disabled. So, as a result, we see the roadblocks, the orange and white roadblocks that are on the screen. Those are clearly not appropriate for the massive crowds that you would have on Bourbon Street.
 
Traditionally, in a place like New York, and I give you an example, Times Square, you would have these large, robust, concrete barriers coupled with even sanitation vehicles to ensure that you wouldn't have a vehicle that it would have the ability to penetrate that area, that corner where Bourbon Street is where you have the revelers that will be participating in New Year's Eve, or I should say New Year's Day because this was after 12:00 p.m., New Year's Day celebrations.
 
So, you -- it's very important that you substitute your -- the accommodations appropriately. And that unfortunately that didn't happen. One of the things that people make mention to when you have these large demonstrations -- or I should say large celebrations is drone traffic. If you had some drones up, it would probably been able to identify or preempt that there was a potential for a vehicle that was speeding towards the crowd.
 
We mentioned these lone wolf attacks. These are some of the most problematic instances for law enforcement. I give an example, when we look at Mangione shooting the CEO of U.S. Healthcare, he was functioning and operating by himself. This appears to be more than the same in that we had a lone wolf attack. So, this becomes very challenging.
 
And so, what law enforcement is going to do is a backwards investigation to find out, and we're going to start it, the scene of the crime and we're going to go into a cell phone, of course, the traditional methods that law enforcement deploy, but to see where he purchased these firearms, what was his ideology online, and hopefully, that can assist for us to understand what the means or why he actually did this horrific act.
 
BROWN:  And of course, the Sugar Bowl is supposed to be there tonight. What do you think, Juliette? Do you think it should go on?
 
KAYYEM:  Yes. I mean, for two reasons. I mean, one is. We are -- it sounds horrible, but there -- we've learned to adapt. There is an incident, a horrible incident that happened in one part of the city, and I say that it should go on for two reasons. One is based on the assurances so far, if that changes, I'll change my mind, that this was a individual attack that they don't view that there's any other threats. And the second is the capability of a city like New Orleans to adapt in the next six hours to call on other local, state, and federal resources and to provide the protection that is necessary both operationally. And also let's just -- you know, symbolically.
 
I am not opposed to what people sometimes called security theater. You want people to feel safe. That is an important part of what the obligation of government is at this stage. They will not feel safe given tonight. And so, you can't -- New Orleans knows how to do this. Louisiana knows how to do this. Just deployed additional resources with changes to the operational planning, including just changing your vehicle traffic capability near the dome, and they can do that.
 
I know it sounds complicated, but people know how to do this in six hours. They can do it. And I think it is important for the show to go on in many ways because these cities often will close down. We've seen this in the past, and it -- there's never a good time to reopen, if you know what I mean, like just given the kinds of threats that we have now, and I've sort of changed my mind on this over the years, that part of our resiliency is we can pivot and still honor and recognize and mourn.
 
BROWN:  Juliette Kayyem, Darrin Porcher, thank you both. Joining us now is New Orleans City Councilmember Leslie Harris. Leslie, thank you for joining us. First of all, do you have any updated information on the incident and the suspect here?
 
LESLIE HARRIS, NEW ORLEANS CITY COUNCILMEMBER, DISTRICT "B" AND NEW ORLEANS CITY COUNCIL:  We are waiting for additional information and we'll have more information after the 11:00 a.m. press conference. What we do know is that we are still planning to go forward with Sugar Bowl. I just heard the last speaker speak and New Orleans knows how to be resilient. We know how to put on big events. And so, we are still planning with additional law enforcement to go forward with Sugar Bowl tonight.
 <br>[11:15:00]
 
BROWN:  I had a congressman on for this area, New Orleans earlier in the show who said the suspect was a local and appeared to be acting alone. What more can you tell us about that and how long he lived in the city? Any other details?
 
HARRIS:  I don't have those details. I think Congressman Carter summed it up correctly that it is someone who seems to have acted alone. They were driving a Texas plated truck. And so, as we have more information, we will continue to update the press. And our citizens in New Orleans who are the most important people right now.
 
BROWN:  I'm sure you're looking through video footage. Is there any incident -- any evidence that the suspect did anything beforehand, any recon, anything like that?
 
HARRIS:  We don't have that evidence now. I can tell you that our emergency command center is set up upstairs in City Hall. I'm in City Hall right now. And we are looking through footage. All-hands-on-deck right now. And so, we will continue to investigate this incident with our partners, the FBI, state police.
 
And again, I just want to say thank you to our first responders who were right there on the scene helping to protect the people who were injured, the people who are gravely injured. And so, if you are concerned about anyone, I just want you to know that if you call New Orleans 311, that is going to be the central place for getting information on any victims of this tragic incident. BROWN:  We heard from an eyewitness who said the steel barricades were not up there. They were not there where this mass casualty event took place, but instead, these flimsy orange barriers that could easily be taken down, anyone could run through them, were there instead. What do you know about that? Was there a security failure here?
 
HARRIS:  I don't know that there was a security failure. I can tell you that New Orleans puts on Mardi Gras and New Year's and Sugar Bowl. We've done it for years. And I think all security measures that we typically have in place are in place. We are increasing security around the game tonight and for the Super Bowl. And so, again, with our local law enforcement partners, our national law enforcement partners, we will be ready for the game tonight and for Super Bowl.
 
BROWN:  Just to follow up quickly, though was there -- in terms of the security preparations and what actually happened, was there any change in the security posture in the overnight hours from around midnight when you had the biggest crowd there until, you know, 3:15 when this took place, was there any change in posture?
 
HARRIS:  My understanding is that law enforcement was on site and that there was no change in posture. We are a 24-hour city. And so, we have security measures in place to make sure that our citizens and tourists are safe on a 24-hour basis. We know that the Sugar Bowl is in town. And so, there is additional security on site, especially around Bourbon Street on New Year's Eve.
 
BROWN:  But why wasn't there the steel barriers or better protection there to prevent a big truck from being able to drive through, especially after what we just saw in Germany, where you saw an attack there with a car?
 
HARRIS:  Well, again, my understanding is that there was law enforcement in place. I don't know about the steel barriers and why those weren't up. But I do know that there was law enforcement on site who acted immediately when this incident occurred.
 
BROWN:  Yes, and of course they did tremendous work in this law enforcement, the emergency personnel and our hearts are with the families that are grieving to start off the new year. It's just horrific. New Orleans City Council Member Leslie Harris, thank you.
 
Well, President-Elect Trump has issued a statement on this. We're going to go live to Mar-a-Lago after a quick break.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[11:20:00]
 
BROWN:  Just minutes ago on social media, President-Elect Donald Trump reacted to the deadly attack in New Orleans. CNN's Alayna Treene is in West Palm Beach, Florida. Alayna, what did he say?
 
ALAYNA TREENE, CNN REPORTER:  I'm going to just jump right into what he wrote on True Social, Pamela. This is what he posted just moments ago. He said, quote, "Our hearts are with all of the innocent victims and their loved ones, including the brave officers of the New Orleans Police Department. The Trump administration will fully support the City of New Orleans as they investigate and recover from this act of pure evil."
 
Now, I do want to add as well that Donald Trump, in this post, also commented on the crime rate in the United States. He said this, he wrote, quote, "When I said that the criminals coming in are far worse than the criminals we have in our country, that statement was constantly refuted by Democrats and the fake news media, but it turned out to be true. The crime rate in our country is at a level that nobody has ever seen before."
 
Now, to be clear, Pamela, as of right now, Wednesday morning, the suspect's citizenship and identity is still unclear. But I can also say that I just spoke with, you know, a source familiar with Donald Trump's movements this morning, and they told me that he has been receiving briefings and real-time updates on the situation unfolding in New Orleans this morning. Pamela.
 
BROWN:  All right. Alayna Treene, thank you so much, Alayna. And President Biden has also just weighed in. Let's bring in CNN's Kayla Tausche. What more can you tell us on what he is saying, Kayla?
 
KAYLA TAUSCHE, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT:  Pamela, President Biden has just left his home in Wilmington, Delaware, and He is currently in his motorcade. He'll be leaving momentarily from the Delaware Air National Guard on his way to Camp David where he plans to spend the next few days.
 
But certainly, there has been a very busy morning for President Biden. He's been receiving regular briefings. And just moments ago, we got a statement from the president himself. I'll read you a part of that. It says, I'm grateful for the brave and swift response of local law enforcement in preventing even greater death and injury. And he says that he has directed his team to ensure every resource is available from the federal government to support local officials.
 <br>[11:25:00]
 
He also says, in the meantime, my heart goes out to the victims and their families who were simply trying to celebrate the holiday. There is no justification, he says, for violence of any kind, and we will not tolerate any attack on any of our nation's communities.
 
He says that he's been receiving regular briefings from the deputy attorney general, Lisa Monaco, as well as his Homeland Security adviser, Liz Sherwood-Randall. We know that officials from the Department of Homeland Security have been briefing him as well, and he says he will continue to receive regular briefings throughout the day as the situation evolves.
 
Now, as for when we could hear from President Biden, it remains to be seen whether he will field any questions from reporters as part of his travel this morning. But he did say in that statement that he will have more to share later once there's more information that he can glean. Pamela. BROWN:  All right. Kayla Tausche, thanks so much. And just last hour, I spoke with a witness to the deadly attack on Bourbon Street in New Orleans that left 10 people dead. Jimmy Cothran has lived in that city for 15 years and he says he is just haunted by what he saw. Here's what he told me.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN:  Jimmy, first off, I'm so sorry what you have been through. I'm sure you were still processing this. Tell us what you saw.
 
JIMMY COTHRAN, EYEWITNESS:  About 3:05, 3:10 this morning, me and my friend were heading from lower Bourbon towards Canal. We seen up towards Krystal Burger and all that, that there was just a lot going on. And so, we ducked off into a nightclub real quick. And within two minutes of walking in, five -- four or five girls come running in, push past security and hide under tables.
 
Me and my friend living here kind of knowing what's what and things that have been on the news. We didn't take any chances. We ran upstairs to the balcony area that we knew was there. And when we got up there, it wasn't anyone chasing anybody, it was just unimaginable casualty. I mean, just the disfigurement and the body's strong -- it's something you can't unsee or never forget.
 
Directly at our feet was definitely a mother, twisted up, obviously deceased. We counted around eight bodies very quickly, right in our area. One gentleman crushed. Had tire tracks across his back. Once they rolled him over, he had tire tracks on his front. He was completely crushed.
 
Another girl, young small girl was dancing when we were coming up the street. And she was just completely flat in the middle, dead center middle. Another woman just brutally run over, but still agonizing. I'm certified in CPR and first responder training and they wouldn't let us help. They locked us all inside, which is understandable, but nobody else was helping. So, that was even tougher.
 
But just the fact that these people are somebody's people and they're not going to be there this morning, it's rough.
 
BROWN:  I'm just speechless. What you just described, I'm speechless. I am so sorry that you had to see that. And it sounds like some of the people you saw after this happened, you had seen before dancing, having fun, enjoying New Year's and then you saw them -- 
 
COTHRAN:  Yes, like I said, I was the designated driver. So, I seen -- everything I seen I remembered and we were just up and down. My friend had never experienced New Year's on Bourbon Street, even though he's lived here, and I thought that was kind of crazy.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)