Headline: Erin Burnett Outfront
Sub-headline: Biden Addresses New Orleans Terror Attack, Tesla Blast At Trump Hotel; Death Toll In New Orleans Terror Attack Rises To 15; Cybertruck Blast At Trump Hotel Probed As Possible Terrorist Act. Aired 7-8p ET

Aired January 01, 2025 - 19:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: I want to thank our brave first responders and law enforcement personnel who stopped the attacker in his tracks before he could kill or injured even more people. 
 <br>[19:00:03]
 
I want to thank you to everyone at the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, including the FBI, for working nonstop to investigate this heinous act. 
 
The FBI is leading the investigation to determine what happened, why it happened, and whether there was any continuing threat to public safety. 
 
Here's what we know so far: The FBI has reported to me the killer was an American citizen born in Texas. He served in the United States Army on active duty for many years. He also served in the Army Reserve until a few years ago. 
 
The FBI also reported to me that mere hours before the attack, he posted videos on social media indicating that he was inspired by ISIS, expressing a desire to kill, a desire to kill.
 
The ISIS flag was found in his vehicle, which he rented to conduct this attack. Possible explosives were found in the vehicle as well, and more explosives were -- were found nearby. The situation is very fluid and the investigation has a preliminary stage. And the fact is that right now, excuse me -- there you go. 
 
The law enforcement and intelligence community are continuing to look for any connections, associations or coconspirators. 
 
We have nothing additional to report at this time. The investigation is continuing to be active and no one should jump to conclusions. 
 
I've directed my attorney general, the FBI director, the secretary of homeland security, the head of the National Counterintelligence Terrorism Center, and the intelligence community to work on this intensively until we have a full and complete information. And once we have that information, I will share that information as soon as we can confirm it. 
 
Additionally, we're tracking the explosion of a Cybertruck outside the Trump Hotel in Las Vegas. Law enforcement and the intelligence community are investigating this as well, including whether there's any possible connection with the attack in New Orleans. Thus far, there's nothing to report on that score at this time. 
 
I directed my team to make sure every resource -- every resource is made available to federal, state and local law enforcement to complete the investigation in New Orleans quickly and to make sure there is no remaining threat to the American people. 
 
And we will support the people of New Orleans as they begin the hard work of healing. 
 
New Orleans is a place unlike any other place in the world. It's a city full of charm and joy. So many people around the world love New Orleans because of its history, its culture, and above all, its people. 
 
So I know while this person committed a terrible assault on the city, the spirit of our New Orleans will never, never, never be defeated. It always will shine forth. We've seen that time and time again throughout its history, and I know well see it again in the days and weeks ahead. 
 
May God bless the people of New Orleans. May our God bless our police and our first responders. And may God protect our troops. And we'll keep you fully, contemporaneously informed. 
 
Thank you. 
 
REPORTER: Have you spoken to President Trump? 
 
PAMELA BROWN, CNN HOST: You've been listening to President Biden address the nation after that deadly terror attack in New Orleans, and also the Cybertruck explosion in Las Vegas.
 
He talked about the fact that the attacker in New Orleans posted these recordings just before the attack, hours before talking about ISIS and how he was inspired by ISIS. And he said that law enforcement officials are now looking for any possible connection between that attack in New Orleans and this explosion outside of the Trump Tower in Las Vegas. 
 
Good evening to everyone. I'm Pamela Brown, in for Erin Burnett. 
 
OUTFRONT tonight, we are following these two breaking stories in New Orleans. The death toll there is rising. Officials now say at least 15 people are dead after a driver plowed into a crowd of people celebrating the New Year on Bourbon Street. 
 
This attack in the French Quarter is now being called an act of terrorism. Multiple officials telling our John Miller moments ago, the suspect, Shamsud-Din Jabbar, made a series of recordings where he is heard saying he joined ISIS, as we just heard from President Biden. 
 
And in Las Vegas, officials are also investigating this Cybertruck explosion outside Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas, which left the driver dead and seven others injured. That investigation is also being treated as a possible terrorist attack. 
 
What do we know? What we do know is the Cybertruck was rented by Turo, which is the same internet site used to rent the truck involved in the New Orleans crash. 
 <br>[19:05:01]
 
We have a team of reporters standing by. Omar Jimenez is in New Orleans. Veronica Miracle is following the Las Vegas explosion. 
 
But I want to start with Omar on the ground there. 
 
Omar, what is the latest you're hearing from officials there? 
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, right now, it remains a busy scene as it has over the course of today. Roads blocked in many different directions outside of the French Quarter, which is just behind me. This attack happened about a block or so away from where I'm standing, maybe a little bit further. But what we saw over the course of the day, obviously investigators going in and out, but also coroner vans going in and out, as we now learn from the coroner that the death toll has jumped to 15 as opposed to 10, which is where it stood for most of the day. 
 
All of this, of course, as investigators are trying to piece together how exactly this unfolded. A big part of it, the motivation. 
 
Well, the FBI said that an ISIS flag was found inside this vehicle, along with a potential IED as well, along with other potential IEDs in the surrounding French Quarter area as well. As you were just talking about a little bit earlier and reporting from our John Miller that law enforcement officials, law enforcement are reviewing videos, according to multiple officials briefed on the investigation, where this individual said that he joined ISIS. So, no doubt part of this investigation moving forward. 
 
But then, of course, there are questions as to why barriers that were installed years ago here to prevent this type of attack from happening didn't stop it from happening in this case. And we actually saw how these initial moments played out from some surveillance video from a nearby business next to us here, which actually shows a white pickup truck coming up Canal Street behind us here, and then goes around a police officer that is stationed in front of Bourbon Street. And then, of course, speeds towards the people that were standing not too far away. 
 
Well, police officials told us today that those metal barricades, those -- those barriers were actually under repair ahead of the Super Bowl next month. And so as a substitute, they put police officers in front of those roadways and other types of barriers. And they say that this -- this person went around them on the sidewalk, and that is how they actually gained access to all of the people that were celebrating again, in just the early morning hours of the New Year. 
 
And we are learning about some of the people that were killed in this attack, at least 15, as we have mentioned, one of them, in particular, 37 year old Reggie Hunter from Baton Rouge. As we understand from one of his cousins, he had sent a happy New Year text to his family and just earlier in the morning, but also that he was someone who liked to laugh and tell jokes, who loved his family and his kids. He leaves behind an 11-year-old and a 1-year-old. Again, in just the opening moments of 2025, Pamela. 
 
BROWN: Okay, thank you so much, Omar. Very sad there on the ground. We hope to learn some more details. 
 
And law enforcement says that they're also investigating another potential terrorist attack after a Tesla Cybertruck exploded right outside of the Trump Hotel in Las Vegas. I believe officials there are actually holding a press conference, hopefully to provide some new details. 
 
Let's listen in. 
 
SHERIFF KEVIN MCMAHILL, LAS VEGAS METROPOLITAN POLICE DEPARTMENT: Area valet of the Trump International Hotel. Very quickly thereafter that the driver who was the sole occupant of the truck, we saw what looked like maybe some sort of smoke, and then the truck exploded. 
 
I'm going to -- smoke was coming from inside of the truck after we noticed the flash and the explosion. And I'm going to show you that first video. That's the Cybertruck parked right in front of the doors.
 
Can you play that again, Carlos? 
 
So the individual that was in that truck is obviously deceased. Um, still in the truck as we speak here today, our fire department folks, engine 12, a number of others, you'll hear from one of the fire chiefs here in just a moment, arrived very quickly, along with my officers. And obviously we knew that we had a much larger event than just a vehicle fire. 
 
And so, there's going to be a drone video that plays to my left again. You'll see as we the fire. Initially they covered it with a tarp to try to get it to go out. Once the fire went out through the suppression efforts of the fire department, you'll see some of the evidence in the back of the vehicle. 
 
So those are gasoline canisters. They are camp fuel canisters and large firework mortars.
 
What I also would like you to pay attention to on that video, as you see that, it looks like the exterior of that truck is completely intact as it sits there. 
 <br>[19:10:05]
 
The fact that this was a Cybertruck really limited the damage that occurred inside of the valet, because it -- it had most of the blast go up through the truck and out. In fact, if you look on that video, you'll see that the front glass doors at the Trump hotel were not even broken by that blast, which they were parked directly in front of. You can see that in the video there. What I will update -- I'm very well aware that there's a name already
 
 been reported out into the media. I am not going to confirm any names to you as I sit here today, because I cannot do that with 100 percent certainty of who the individual is. 
 
What I can tell you is we do know the truck was rented in Colorado. We were able to trace that truck through the Tesla charging stations, and it arrived here in Las Vegas this morning at about 7:30 and went up and down Las Vegas Boulevard before immediately pulling into the Trump Towers. 
 
Unfortunately, there were seven people that reported injuries during this incident. All of them still remain as minor injuries and were treated at UMC. I would like to thank the Resorts World because, as you know, we had to close down the Trump and evacuate it, as well as the fashion show mall. And the Resorts World was very gracious in taking those hundreds of individuals in over there, housing them and feeding them prior to us being able to completely clear the hotel. 
 
The hotel and fashion show are back open for business. The Trump will remain closed as we continue this lengthy investigation as we move forward. 
 
I'm going to yield now to Chief Billy Samuels, but id like you to also recognize all of our exceptional elected officials that have come to support the police and the fire department and this community in remaining safe. There is no further threat to the community. As I sit here today, and I just want to make sure that our community understands, we believe this to be an isolated incident, and it is now over as far as the danger. 
 
So, Billy? 
 
BILLY SAMUELS, DEPUTY FIRE CHIEF, CLARK COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENT: Thank you, Sheriff. 
 
I'm going to reiterate some of the stuff that the sheriff has spoken upon. 
 
Engine 12 did arrive within four minutes of dispatch. It did extinguish the fire with assistance from the sprinkler systems, and along with that electric vehicle blanket that we use on those operations.
 
We did encounter seven victims, all stable. Two of them were transported to UMC, who have since been released. They were transported by community ambulance. 
 
A total of 13 units from Clark County Fire with 26 personnel, and then four units from and 17 personnel from Las Vegas Fire and Rescue assisted with this operation. 
 
We always do appreciate the support that we get from our hotel partners, as the sheriff was mentioning with Resorts World. RTC did lend us ten buses so we can refuge the people that were evacuated from the Trump Tower. Community ambulance for their transportation for us, Las Vegas Fire and Rescue and Nevada division of emergency management and we do appreciate their support, so we can't do that without them. And like the sheriff said, last night was a huge success. But we are prepared for whatever comes our way. 
 
So thank you for that and I will turn this over to special agent in charge, Jeremy Schwartz. 
 
JEREMY SCHWARTZ, FBI SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: Good afternoon. My name is Jeremy Schwartz. I'm currently the acting special agent in charge for the FBI here in Las Vegas. 
 
The FBI is currently conducting an investigation on a vehicle explosion. As the sheriff had just shown to you a little bit ago that's being conducted through our JTTF, which is a Joint Terrorism Task Force. 
 
I want to make sure everybody understands that the task force is comprised of law enforcement officials from the entire valley here. We're not doing anything alone, and we wouldn't do anything alone without our partners making sure that were all in lockstep. We've learned from our mistakes in the past, and were not going to do that again. 
 
We have a great relationship with our law enforcement -- law enforcement partners, and we're going to continue to do so. 
 
As of right now, our number one goal is to ensure that we have the proper identification of the subject involved in this incident. Following that, our second objective is to determine whether this was an act of terrorism or not. I know everybody is interested in that word, and trying to see if we can say, hey, this is a terrorist attack. That is our goal, and that's what were trying to do. 
 
We have a ton of resources dedicated to this right now. And again, we're doing it with our partners. Were doing it together jointly, and well continue to do so until we figure out exactly what's going on. 
 
I think most importantly, as the sheriff already mentioned, we believe this is an isolated incident. We do not believe that there is a bunch of folks out there supporting this or helping this, and we don't believe that there's any other danger to the community right now. 
 
But again, over the next few hours and days, we will continue to do our best to research that as much as we can and get to the bottom of this. And we won't stop until were 100 percent certain as to what happened and why. 
 <br>[19:15:09]
 
Thank you. 
 
MCMAHILL: So I just want to clarify again so that I don't get these questions. We do know who rented the truck. We are looking at that individual, but I am not prepared to release the name of any of the individuals that we are looking at, at least until next of kin is notified and we have a 100 percent identification. So with that, ill take any questions you might have. I can't see. 
 
Hi, Dana. 
 
REPORTER: Do you think it's a coincidence that there were these kinds of incidents on the same day basically in two tourism capitals?
 
MCMAHILL: Do I think it's a coincidence? I don't know, but what I can tell you is were absolutely investigating any connectivity to what happened in New Orleans, as well as other attacks that have been occurring around the world. We're not ruling anything out yet, Dana.
 
REPORTER: Is there any possibility that this had a link to ISIS? There have been suggestions that the New Orleans attack might have. 
 
MCMAHILL: Yeah. So the question is, is there any links to ISIS? And I will tell you that we don't have any indication of that here in Las Vegas. No overt ISIS flag, as was seen in New Orleans. 
 
But again, we are investigating every aspect of this. And if that comes to light, we'll certainly update you. I'm sorry, sir?
 
REPORTER: What is the time between the trucks arrival and the explosion? 
 
MCMAHILL: About one hour was the amount of time between the arrival of the truck here in Las Vegas, or at least our first notification of the arrival and the explosion that occurred at the tower. 
 
It was only there for about. It was sitting in the porte-cochere for about 15 seconds before it exploded. How is that? Was that 15 or Dorrigo (ph)? The 15 to 20 seconds. I just want to make sure I gave you the right info. 
 
REPORTER: The Elon Musk, Tesla and Donald Trump connection to be interesting from an investigative perspective. 
 
MCMAHILL: Well, I mean, it's a Tesla truck. And we know that Elon Musk is working with President-elect Trump and it's the Trump Tower. So there's obviously things to be concerned about there. And that's something we continue to look at. 
 
REPORTER: Have you all found reexamined security procedures at hotels?
 
MCMAHILL: Yeah. So I'm glad you asked that question. Do we need to reexamine security procedures? You know, we were very successful in the night before. I'm surprised this happened, to be quite frank with you. And that's certainly something were going to have to look at in target hardening, what that looks like. 
 
But two, to your question, Dana, I did forget to mention that I have authorized what we call an ABX roster to continue for the next two days, which is my New Year's Eve staffing plan of over a thousand officers, both in our community neighborhoods as well as on the strip and downtown, in partnership with all of the other law enforcement agencies, city of Las Vegas marshals, north Las Vegas, Henderson. Just to ensure that even if we had a copycat or somebody else wanted to go up and conduct an attack, that we have the appropriate and available resources to handle it. 
 
REPORTER: Have you all found any devices inside the Cybertruck that could have been used to set off those explosives? 
 
MCMAHILL: No, we -- the question is, did we find any devices that would be used to set off the explosives? And the answer is no. I don't know how they were ignited. Clearly, with what you see in there, something set them off. But I don't know what it was yet. We haven't been able to process the vehicle yet. 
 
REPORTER: Has LVMPD been in contact with Tesla Co. to get the analytics from the vehicle cameras? 
 
MCMAHILL: Yes, actually I have to thank Elon Musk specifically. He gave us quite a bit of additional information in regards to how the vehicle was locked after it exploded due to the force of the nature or the nature of the force from the explosion, as well as being able to capture all of the video from the Tesla charging stations across the country. And they were sent -- he sent that directly to us. So I appreciate his help on that. 
 
I'll take one more question. 
 
REPORTER: You must be claiming that. 
 
MCMAHILL: I'm sorry. You got to speak up for me. 
 
REPORTER: Elon Musk is saying this vehicle and the vehicle in New Orleans were rented from the same company. Has there been any other indication that these two events might be associated? 
 
MCMAHILL: It's another. The question is, is the both vehicles. I'm being told that New Orleans was rented from Turo and so was ours. That's another coincidence that absolutely is continuing to bear from our investigation that we have to continue to look into. 
 
So thank you very much. And as we get additional information for all of you -- I'm sorry, I'll give you a shot. 
 
REPORTER: Are you investigators using any of the city license plate readers to see? 
 
MCMAHILL: That's -- the question is, are we using the license plate readers and the technology, one, you see the drone flight through the vehicle because it was unsafe to get there. So that -- we're using that technology. Thankful to have it, as well as the first indication of that vehicle arriving here in Las Vegas came from a license plate reader. 
 
So technology has been very useful to us in resolving this. And again, I'll commit to come back to you all when we have confirmation of the suspect's name, who they are, what their background is. We will get that information back out to you. We'll call another press conference and provide it. I just like to again thank the mayor, the commissioners, the other law
 
 enforcement leaders, and, of course, our attorney general for -- for showing up and supporting us in this event.
 <br>[19:20:08]
 
It's been a statewide effort and I appreciate it. Thank you. 
 
BROWN: All right. We just heard there from officials in Las Vegas talking about the Cybertruck explosion right outside of Trump Tower. 
 
The officials there saying that the Cybertruck was rented through this website, Turo, in Colorado and was driven from Colorado there in Vegas, arriving there about an hour before it exploded, he said, outside of Trump Tower there. And he talked about the fact that because it was a Cybertruck and it had such a solid exterior that that helped contain the blast. So there are seven people injured. They're in the hospital. But of course, this could have been much worse. 
 
And it is important to note here, officials have not been able to rule out whether there is any connection between what happened in Vegas and what happened in New Orleans. 
 
Evan Perez is OUTFRONT in Washington. 
 
You've been covering this. He -- he called it a coincidence, Evan, at the very least, that both cars used in these events, these attacks were from Turo. But officials are trying to see if there's anything more than just a coincidence here. 
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Right, exactly. Pamela, they are trying to determine whether perhaps one was inspired by the other. Again, there's a lot of coincidence here, including the fact that both of these vehicles were rented from this app, Turo, which allows people to take their private cars and rent them out to, to other people. And so that's obviously one of the big coincidences, obviously, that both events happening on the same day. Again, that's one of the reasons why you heard from President Biden that the FBI is going to investigate both incidents, to see whether there's any possible connections. 
 
Now, we don't know that at this point, they appear to be just complete coincidences. But in the case of New Orleans, look, we know from talking to law enforcement sources, some of the reporting that you've done as well today, Pamela, that, you know, this -- this person who carried out this attack had certainly been planning their attack for some time. They were able to leave behind recordings. They were able to leave behind writings that suggested they had some affiliation or some at least some allegiance to ISIS. None of that has been found yet in this, in the Las Vegas incident. 
 
But in the case of New Orleans, it appears very quickly that, you know, to the FBI that this was an incident that was related to international terrorism. And so that's the reason why you see the way that is being approached, which is the FBI leading that investigation. At this point, we know that the suspect there in Las Vegas was a
 
 former U.S. Army enlisted person. He served in the military in the U.S. Army from 2007 to 220 -- 2020. For about eight years of those, he was active duty. And we also know that he was actually deployed to Afghanistan back in 2009 to early 2010. 
 
So all of this now is focused on whether there are any potential accomplices in the case of New Orleans, because obviously, the FBI and law enforcement wants to make sure that any possible accomplices would be also brought to justice -- Pamela. 
 
BROWN: Absolutely. Evan Perez, thank you. I know you're going to continue to work your sources on this story. 
 
OUTFRONT now, former FBI special agent Jason Pack, chief law enforcement and intelligence analyst John Miller, and national security expert Jamil Jaffer. 
 
John, first to you, we heard what officials there said that they are also investigating that explosion outside Trump's hotel in Las Vegas. The Cybertruck that was rented by Turo, which is the same site used to rent the truck involved in the New Orleans crash. 
 
What's your takeaway here on that? 
 
JOHN MILLER, CNN CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: Well, first, you have to consider the imagery, right? Here is a Trump property with an Elon Musk product, the Cybertruck, his most famous iconic product right now, where it rolls up right to the Trump sign and detonates. So someone behind this attack did a good deal of planning to obtain all of those explosives, all of those mortar shells, all of those accelerants, and put this together, thinking that that was the imagery that they wanted to create. So there's a message there. 
 
Now we go to the coincidences, which is the truck is rented from Turo, which is the same company that rented the truck that was used in Las Vegas. The individual I can report from sources briefed on the case that they suspect may be the person inside that truck, the driver who allegedly detonated that device also has a military background. So you start to see these coincidences. 
 
But then as an investigator, you have to put your clinical thought to bear, which is even though this occurred, you know, on the other side of the country, and four hours later, after the New Orleans attack, there are coincidences. So you've got to look at is there a connection? Were these individuals both inspired by ISIS? 
 
We now know the New Orleans individual was.
 <br>[19:25:01]
 
We have no idea about the Las Vegas attack. Or are these two separate things altogether? And that's requiring -- and Jason can tell you more about this -- that's requiring the FBI to kind of go back through the history of these individuals, all of their communications, all of their associates, and do it very quickly to figure out are they on the same page or different pages in terms of agenda and issues meant to get people killed? 
 
BROWN: Yeah. Jason, bring us into what FBI investigators are doing right now. 
 
JASON PACK, FORMER FBI SPECIAL AGENT: Well, I think there's a lot of moving parts and a lot of things going on a couple different fronts. So in New Orleans, obviously, they're looking for any potential accomplices, accomplices. And so in we remember in Boston where we were trying to put out the right photograph of the suspect, the suspect there. And so we took a few minutes to make sure we had the right photo. The FBI did when I say we. 
 
And so putting that photo out, that's going to get the tip that could break the case open and figure out who these people are is going to be really important. And so they're -- they're doing that and concentrating on that. You also have ERT, the evidence response teams coming in from probably surrounding field offices there. You have Jackson, you have Mobile. So they're coming in to help the New Orleans field office probably process this crime scene. 
 
The FBI lab certainly coming in to kind of to take every kind of detail that you could get and divulge any kind of lead that they may be able to get from that, put that together, figure out what's going on there, and in Las Vegas as well. You heard the sheriff say at the press conference there, they were 98 percent sure who or 99 percent sure that they knew who the person was. They're going to probably wait for DNA to make sure exactly who he is, and then they'll be able to try to connect the dots with that, too. 
 
Tonight, there's a lot of dots to connect some 17 hours after the first event there in New Orleans. 
 
BROWN: Certainly. So what we do know is we take a step back. And for our viewers just now turning in, is that in the New Orleans attack, there was an ISIS flag that was on that truck. And there were other ISIS materials that the recordings and so forth. When it comes to Vegas so far, officials have not found an ISIS link. 
 
But, Jamil, I want to go to you on this. When you look at the New Orleans attack and what we know now, you point out that the U.S. has killed at least three ISIS senior leaders in the last five years. One of them just killed less than two weeks ago. And you think this is no coincidence? 
 
JAMIL JAFFER, FOUNDER &amp; EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY INSTITUTE: Well, look, you know, Pamela, its certainly possible that even if this was just an ISIS inspired attack and not an ISIS directed attack, that somebody may have decided to take matters into their own hands, seeing the effective way in which the U.S. government has prosecuted the ISIS terrorist group and say, look, now's the time for me to strike. 
 
That might have been one of the things that pushed our individual, Shamsud-Din over the edge in New Orleans. We don't know, really what's pushing him over the edge. We don't know what's caused him to do this. And we don't know if other people were involved. We've heard from the FBI suggesting others may have been involved. There's some reporting coming out of this intelligence report that there may have been other individuals involved, although I'm now hearing from law enforcement sources that that might have just been a little bit of noise in the system, that he may be a solo attacker. 
 
So more to come on that, but we do want to know what caused him to do this. And it may be that some of these successes that we've had against ISIS may be the cause of spell out here. 
 
BROWN: Well, we're going to talk to someone now who will hopefully help us fill in the gaps here. Thank you all very much for sharing your analysis. 
 
OUTFRONT now, Louisiana Congressman Troy Carter.
 
Congressman, thank you for coming on. I know you've had a very long day. So there's this heavy law enforcement presence in the New Orleans neighborhood -- certain New Orleans neighborhood. It's several blocks cordoned off. It's right here. We're showing video. 
 
What's going on here? What do we -- what are they so focused on here? 
 
REP. TROY CARTER (D-LA): Right now, the entire French Quarter, particularly Bourbon Street, is an active crime scene. We have federal, local and state officials who are embedded in this community, looking for additional evidence, looking to make sure that there's no IEDs. We know that there were at least two that were found and detonated without incident. 
 
And now what we have is a complete use of every resource. Was happy to see and hear from the president early this morning, and as he said recently that every single resource of the federal government would be made available to ensure that no stone would be left unturned when determining who or who else may have been a part of this horrific terrorist act. So what you're seeing now are every single law enforcement agent not working? 
 
BROWN: Just to be clear, does it appear that he was staying in an Airbnb in this neighborhood? Is that what you're being told through your briefings that that law enforcement is investigating? 
 
CARTER: Apparently, he was, in fact, staying in an Airbnb, not in the French Quarter, but in a nearby neighborhood of the French Quarter. 
 
BROWN: And do you know for how long? 
 
CARTER: That information is not yet available. It's an ongoing investigation. 
 <br>[19:30:01]
 
So, we don't believe he was there more than -- than a day. But that information is being gathered. BROWN: I want to show this video of the truck turning onto Bourbon
 
 Street and just want to warn everyone. It is very disturbing. We saw the truck go around a police car and then turn onto this crowded street, and I want to play something, the police captain said when asked about how something like this could happen. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
LAJEAN ROBERTS, POLICE CAPTAIN: Of course, it wasn't something we expected to account for. The bollards are -- they're actually wedges. They're strategically placed five locations throughout the French Quarter on the roadway. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
BROWN: What is your reaction? I mean, should this have been something expected and accounted for? 
 
CARTER: Well, you know, I served on the city council many years ago, so I'm intimately aware of the security mechanisms to protect the French Quarter, namely Bourbon Street. And their metal bollards that come up out of the ground that are supposed to prevent any oncoming vehicles from driving into the crowd. 
 
We were told today at a briefing that apparently they were not working properly. Therefore, there were vehicles that were placed in the place where the bollards would have been, which served as the blockade, if you will. The subject or suspect apparently went around the vehicle and jumped the sidewalk. The next question obviously be asked is why was the sidewalk not protected? 
 
There are a lot of unanswered questions as it relates to that, but one thing is for certain, as the governor said, with no uncertain terms, we will identify whatever the weakness was and fix it, making sure that the citizens and visitors that come to New Orleans are safe is paramount. 
 
BROWN: I'm just curious, are you concerned that there was so much energy and focus in the city on the upcoming Super Bowl and even the Sugar Bowl? But -- but really, the super bowl, because our understanding is some of the bollards were being repaired for the Super Bowl. Do you have any concern that maybe that dynamic was at play here in terms of maybe not the security being where it should have been? 
 
CARTER: Well, listen, our bollards should have been correct and fixed for even the Sugar Bowl. We manage major, major events in the French Quarter and in the city of New Orleans with conferences, with Mardi Gras, with jazz fest, with Essence Festival, Super Bowls and Sugar Bowls every year. 
 
It's unacceptable to think that we will -- we were preparing for the Super Bowl and potentially left ourselves open for the Sugar Bowl or for New Year's Eve even. We have thousands of people that come to New Orleans to enjoy New Year's Eve, to have our Super Bowl every single year, these resources should have been employed to have -- whether it was concrete bollards or something else in place of an electronic bollards that may have been faulty. 
 
BROWN: Congressman, thank you so much for coming on. We appreciate your time. 
 
And OUTFRONT next, our breaking news continues. Officials now searching the Houston home of the New Orleans suspect, as we have this new video of the suspect coming in. 
 
Plus, our Tom Foreman is at the magic wall to show you exactly how this deadly attack unfolded turn by turn. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:36:08]
 
BROWN: Breaking news we are learning more about the 42-year-old suspect identified as Shamsud-Din Jabbar, a U.S. citizen born in Texas. He previously served in the U.S. military and worked in real estate, and IT. The suspect revealing in a recording that he is divorced and planned to kill his family, but then changed his mind, instead joining ISIS. 
 
Court documents showing the suspect struggled financially in recent years. 
 
Ed Lavandera is in Houston with more on the suspect's ties to the state. 
 
What are you learning, Ed? 
 
ED LAVANDERA, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Pamela. 
 
Well, for several hours this afternoon, a number of law enforcement authorities have been here in this far north Houston neighborhood that has been cordoned off. And according to local officials and FBI officials, they have been searching a home that is address is connected to the suspect that carried out the terror attack in New Orleans. 
 
FBI officials also confirming that this search is related to that investigation. And as you mentioned, we are learning more about this, this suspect, who in several various sources that we've been able to comb through throughout the day. The suspect had been battling some financial troubles, worked in real estate and information technologies, systems and studied that as well. 
 
But in court documents, we've been able to reveal he talked about the financial struggles that he had been going through in recent years, from 2019 to 2023. He had a real estate license here in Texas. But in court documents connected to a -- he was sued by the mother of two of his children back in 2012 over child support payments. And in some of those documents, we've learned that in recent years, he talked about being -- carrying debt of nearly $30,000, owing credit card debt, and also struggling to make payments on his home. 
 
We've also come across a YouTube video that was posted back in 2020, at the time that he was getting into real estate here in Texas, and the video is described as a personal introduction. And this is what he said on that video. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
SHAMSUD-DIN JABBAR, SUSPECT IN NEW ORLEANS ATTACK: So I'm born and raised in Beaumont, Texas, and now live in Houston, and I've been here all my life, with the exception of traveling for the military, where I spent ten years as a human resources specialist. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
LAVANDERA: And, Pamela, you know, this is back here in this north Houston neighborhood where officials here have been very tight-lipped throughout the day, not saying much exactly as to what has been happening here at this search, but that the search continues and it's been going on for several hours now -- Pamela. 
 
BROWN: All right. Thanks so much, Ed. 
 
I want to go now to former FBI supervisory special agent Rob D'Amico. 
 
Rob, Ed just laid out the suspect and his history. How does someone like that become so radicalized and do something like this? 
 
ROB D'AMICO, FORMER FBI SUPERVISORY SPECIAL AGENT: Well, I think part of it is these groups are very good at getting to people that want to blame someone. It goes across the board. He was having tough times.
 
I think there's probably some mental illness, that's going to come across the radar with him, but he's going down a slope. He wants to blame someone. 
 
And these groups are great for placing the blame on others and then getting them to act on it. It's -- we've seen it in the white supremacist movement. We've seen it in the terrorist groups. 
 
They're very good at that. And that's how they recruit them and then that's how they get them to take action. So I think you're going to see probably when it started to the spiraling effects that we saw from him finally taking action. 
 
Obviously, if he's planning to kill his family, the mental health issue is there, too. And I think it's a combination. 
 
BROWN: Yeah, he said in the recordings, according to our John Miller, that he at first thought about bringing his family together for a celebration and then killing them, and then he decided to move off that plan and join ISIS. 
 <br>[19:40:01]
 
I want to show you this video, and I just want to warn all of our viewers here. It is graphic and it shows Canal Street at 3:16 a.m. local time. The truck driver is seen passing what appears to be a law enforcement car before rapidly turning onto Bourbon Street and smashing into innocent people. When you watch that video, is there anything that stands out to your trained eye? 
 
D'AMICO: Well, one thing is, I made a comment back in December when the vehicle attack in Germany happened and I said, even if it's not a coordinated event, you are likely to see this trigger someone, that someone who's been thinking about it to do something. And I think that's exactly what happened. 
 
And they should have planned better. I -- you know, I hate to go back, but like, if you couldn't get a vehicle close to Times Square, they blocked those roads off with dump trucks and sand trucks and cement trucks, everything that a vehicle like that, a pickup truck is not going to get through because they know they -- they need to protect that inner space. 
 
So I think you're -- you're seeing things that this city I don't want to say they didn't take it seriously. But if you're just going to put one car, I guarantee if the sidewalk wasn't open, that pickup truck could have pushed that one patrol car. That was traffic enforcement. That's not blockading a vehicle with someone with an intent to do this. 
 
And I think it's going to change it. Like 9/11 changed air flight security. This event is going to really change some of the ways that they look at true security of large gatherings of people where they're vulnerable. 
 
BROWN: Rob D'Amico, thank you. Very sad. We have to learn this way. But that is our sad reality. Thank you so much. 
 
OUTFRONT next, our breaking news continues. Investigators now examining the improvised explosive devices that were found in New Orleans. Are officials certain they are connected to the suspect behind the deadly terror attack? There's an ongoing investigation into that. 
 
Plus, we're going to show you exactly how the suspect was able to pull off this attack turn by turn in the heart of New Orleans. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[19:45:18]
 
BROWN: And we are back with our breaking news tonight. At least 15 people killed in a New Year's Eve attack on a packed Bourbon Street in New Orleans. Thirty-five injured. 
 
President Biden moments ago condemning the, quote, heinous attack and saying investigators are looking at any links between the New Orleans attack and a separate Cybertruck blast at Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas just hours later. 
 
I want to now bring in New Orleans City Councilman Oliver Thomas. 
 
Councilman, thank you. I know you have had such a long day since early this morning. I first want to ask you about the latest, the investigation, since you are getting briefings. We're told that there were the IEDs in the truck of the attacker and also two other locations -- a congressman who we just heard on said there were two other locations where IEDs were found. 
 
We're now hearing that that -- oh, go ahead. 
 
OLIVER THOMAS, NEW ORLEANS CITY COUNCILMEMBER: You know, we all got the same information at a briefing earlier. It's been step by step for me from the emergency room with victims and the police officers. Until today, it's been nonstop, but the briefing that that he got, what you guys are hearing right now, we've been having that information for -- for quite some time. 
 
BROWN: But I wanted to follow up with you. I didn't get to really dive into it with him on this, on whether there's a belief that the suspect was not solely responsible still. Is that still the operating belief or has that changed? 
 
THOMAS: Well, there were a couple of comments that were made by people at the press conference after the briefing that they think that maybe others were involved. I'm going to allow the FBI, our local police force, and the troopers and the teams doing the investigation to come up with their facts and whatever they find out. So I'm not going to speculate on that. But it was alluded to by some members at the press conference that potentially maybe this person didn't act alone, but we don't -- we don't know that for sure now. 
 
BROWN: We don't know, right. We don't know that for sure. 
 
So I want to ask you about the other meetings you've been in today, having to do with the Sugar Bowl and moving that. Do you believe the city will be ready to have this sugar bowl tomorrow night? Bring us into those deliberations. 
 
THOMAS: Yeah, well, first of all, it's been a long day, I mean. And shout out to the medical officials. We haven't heard much about them, but at our emergency rooms, many came back to work. They worked overtime to help stabilize and mitigate some of the injuries and try to save as many people as possible. 
 
What I heard in the briefings earlier, especially with all the joint forces from the FBI to local sheriffs and police chiefs and our own men and women of the police department, that they're working hard to talk about. How do we begin to have hard -- hard protection points, right? What do we use? Do we use buses? Do we use I like to use in New York garbage trucks and others to funnel people vote pedestrians -- pedestrians and vehicular traffic. How do we get them to the dome safely? What are the access -- access points and what are the points of transportation that we use? 
 
So I think that one of the delays was that so they could work all of those things out so that we could have a safe Sugar Bowl. 
 
But, you know, New Orleans is not only resilient. People forget were one of the best cities in the world, and our men and women are some of the best at crowd control, as well as dealing with issues like this. BROWN: Right. I want to ask you, you went to the hospital. You were
 
 one of the first officials there early this morning. You met with at least one of the officers. Bring us into that. How are the two officers that were shot doing? What did they tell you? 
 
THOMAS: Well, first of all, great question. I met with both of the officers and some of their family members. They're both doing well. They were high spirited. 
 
One of them actually got a chance to take a nap when we left, so I couldn't say goodbye to him, but he was really up and really concerned about the other officer. But one of the most touching events, especially from the young man who was family comes from the neighborhood I grew up in. There was an officer that he was in the academy with, a young woman who found her way to the emergency room to see if her comrade was all right, and that was a tearful moment. 
 
But we haven't talked about that side of it, about how they feel about each other when they're in danger, and as well as the people at the hospital who reminded them that had they not gone to the perpetrator to nullify his threat and put them -- their life -- their selves in the line of fire and to potentially be killed or hurt like they were, then thousands more and hundreds more could have been hurt or even killed. 
 
BROWN: Certainly. Thank you so much. 
 <br>[19:50:00]
 
And we hope that they continue to recover. And we are so grateful for what they did to step in to stop this from being even worse. 
 
Thank you so much, Councilmember.
 
THOMAS: As Dee-1 -- as Dee-1, the rapper said, who is from New Orleans, evil won't win and our police chief has reminded everybody that we're not scared, we're resilient and we're ready to fight for our freedom here and our culture here. We're New Orleans. 
 
BROWN: Very important message. Thank you, Councilmember. 
 
THOMAS: Thank you. 
 
BROWN: And OUTFRONT next, our breaking news continues. We have some new details tonight coming in about the New Orleans terror suspect's movements just before this morning's deadly attack. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
BROWN: We're continuing to follow the breaking news in New Orleans after 15 people were killed when a man drove a pickup truck through a crowd. And what the FBI is investigating as a, quote, act of terrorism. One witness who was nearby when the attack took place, describing the horror and chaos that ensued, saying, quote, they were just bodies and the screams. I mean, you can't unhear that. 
 
Tom Foreman is here to show us where and how this attack took place. 
 
Tom, we should note you've lived in this city many years. The suspect drove through a crowd of revelers early this morning, and one of the busiest areas of New Orleans, right? 
 
TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, and the city, Pam has known for many years, ever since I lived there, that the potentially dangerous spot here in Bourbon Street, because everyone is drawn there. 
 
They're drawn there when they come to the town because Jackson Square is right over here. One of the big attractions with the Cafe Du Monde, Preservation Hall right over here, Canal Street, biggest, widest street -- main street in the world. Right here in the country Right there, the Superdome, right over here. 
 
They're all in easy access to this. So, yes, the city has known for years and years and years that this crowd of people here was a potential target. And today, they really were, Pam. 
 
BROWN: They really were. And the police chief said the city had a safety plan in place. But, quote, the terrorists defeated it. 
 <br>[19:55:01]
 
Why was this area so vulnerable at the time of the attack? 
 
FOREMAN: Everybody will admit that maybe a determined terrorist can defeat almost any kind of system. But look at what was going on here. They had this plan that started in November to replace these steel bollards, to stop any car trying to go down there. They're partway through the plan. They were trying to get it ready by the time of the Super Bowl. 
 
The question is, why did they think that a police car across here would be enough when they said all this person did was drive across the sidewalk, and if you watch the video, that's all he does. He circles around the police car and there he goes. The question is, why didn't they have more in place? 
 
And that question really does have to be asked, especially now that the Sugar Bowl is back on for tomorrow. Mardi Gras is going to start soon. Jazz festival coming up. The Super Bowl is coming up in just a little over a month. 
 
Millions of people will be here. They will go to Bourbon Street and before this is all over, officials there are going to have to say more than just were going to fix it. They're going to have to explain to people how they're going to keep this from happening again -- Pam. 
 
BROWN: Tom Foreman, thank you. 
 
And thank you for joining us. We're going to have more of our breaking news coverage at 10:00. You can find the latest news on CNN.com. I'll be back in the anchor chair at 11:00 tomorrow morning for my show. 
 
The CNN film "LUTHER: NEVER TOO MUCH" premieres right after this.