Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: Five Wildfires Burning LA, Newest in Hollywood Hills; Los Angeles Fires Force Tens of Thousands to Evacuate; Trump' Remarks About Acquiring Greenland Rattle Allies. Aired 4-4:30a ET

Aired January 09, 2025 - 04:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:00:00] 
 
ANNOUNCER: This is CNN Breaking News. 
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers joining us from around the world. I'm Max Foster.
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR: And I'm Christina Macfarlane. It's Thursday, January 9th, 9 a.m. here in London, 1 a.m. in the Los Angeles area, where firefighters are now battling five wildfires, including the latest one to break out in the Hollywood Hills. And officials warn the danger is not yet over, as winds are expected to increase as the day goes on.
 
FOSTER: The two largest fires right now are the Palisades Fire and the Eaton Fire. Combined, they've now burned more than 27,000 acres, or nearly 11,000 hectares. Neither one has been contained at all.
 
MACFARLANE: And the smoke and the ash from the raging fires are causing air quality in some communities to plummet, and in some cases reach hazardous levels. The mayor of Los Angeles addressed the devastation.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAREN BASS, LOS ANGELES MAYOR: This firestorm is the big one in magnitude. Hurricane-force winds are usually accompanied by rainstorms. But these are hurricane-force winds that are combined with extremely dry drought conditions.
 
I know the world is looking at images of our city's devastation. I have seen the front lines of the Palisades Fire, and it is staggering.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Firefighters were able to quickly contain this fire, though, which broke out at a four-story Los Angeles home, but not before the home collapsed. Just one scene playing out across the area well into the night.
 
MACFARLANE: Well meanwhile, U.S. President Joe Biden has cancelled a planned trip to Italy to focus on the federal response to the wildfires. For those in the fire zone, an urgent water advisory has been issued for residents in the Pacific Palisades neighborhood of Los Angeles, while UCLA has cancelled all undergraduate classes through Friday, and the California National Guard has now sent more than 600 service members to assist with the response. These developments as we're hearing from those who've witnessed the fires firsthand.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I saw a big ball of orange with the smoke, so it looked like it was here towards the top of the hill, and I went back to the house and got some things.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And I went outside and I seen everybody running back and forth and I looked to my left and just seen a fire.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Have you ever seen anything like this in Hollywood?
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No, nothing like this. I never think something like that would happen over here in this area.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This hurts, and it hurts seeing the scale of it. I've lived here in the LA area my whole life, 32 years. It's never been this bad.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Well, I mean, it's really sad that there's just no response at the moment because the fire departments are all out. There's 1,000 homes burning right now. So right now it's neighbors just trying to save their own house, and it's up to them, try to save your neighbor's house.
 
We've gotten really lucky with the rains the last couple of years, but this year we knew with zero rain that one big windstorm and we were toast, and last night it happened.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: Max, the proximity of these people to those fires, just in their backyards there, is just shocking, isn't it?
 
FOSTER: And they're used to it as well, and to hear them say what they're saying, it shows how extraordinary the situation is.
 
MACFARLANE: And someone trying to put it out with a fire hose, I mean, it's insane. Nick Watt has actually been on the scene since the fires broke out Tuesday, and he brought us this report from Los Angeles.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I just have one bag to pick. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's fine, Mum, just get out of the house.
 
NICK WATT, CNN U.S. NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Just look at that view out her window, and this.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, let's get out of here. We tried, we tried, bro. WATT (voice-over): Approximately 155,000 people have been ordered or advised to evacuate. 
 
CHIEF ANTHONY MARRONE, LOS ANGELES COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENT: That makes the difference between living and not. 
 
WATT (voice-over): Flames hopped major roads, including the fabled Pacific Coast Highway.
 
CHIEF KRISTIN M. CROWLEY, LOS ANGELES CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT: We're absolutely not out of danger yet, with the strong winds that continue to push through the city and the county today.
 
WATT (voice-over): Those strong Santa Ana winds were forecast. We knew something was coming, just not this. Officials say they prepped for maybe one or two fires.
 
MARRONE: There are not enough firefighters in L.A. County to address four separate fires of this magnitude.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'm acting home, and I'm really very upset inside.
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This year we knew with zero rain that one big windstorm and we were toast. Seems like a lot of the homes here they're burning because of embers that have landed in bushes and are lighting.
 <br>[04:05:00]
 
WATT (voice-over): Wind gusts in SoCal hit one driving flames through bone-dry brush and homes. Utter devastation in the desirable neighborhood of Pacific Palisades. This is Palisades Village, the now barely recognizable chichi downtown. We were here last night as those winds were picking up. 
 
In the early hours, the fire hydrants here ran dry.
 
JANISSE QUINONES, CEO, LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER: We were not able to fill the cans fast enough, so the consumption of water was faster than we can provide water.
 
WATT (voice-over): The Palisades fire already among the 20 worst in California's recorded history, and 15 of those have hit in just the past decade as our climate changes and our planet warms.
 
MARRONE: This is a tragic time in our history here in Los Angeles, but a time where we're really tested and see who we really are.
 
WATT: Pacific Palisades still burning. This community has lost hundreds, maybe thousands of homes, and also its infrastructure, the library, the theater, the school, the bank, the grocery stores, gone. Back to you.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) FOSTER: Well, the National Weather Service predicts Southern California should see a brief lull in wind gusts in the coming hours, but winds aren't supposed to pick up again later today. CNN meteorologist Chad Myers has your forecast.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
CHAD MYERS, CNN METEOROLOGIST: The wind forecast is better. I mean, better than this, better than hurricane force wind gusts. But we're still going to be 20 to 30 with a gust of 40.
 
But unlike yesterday when we had the perfect setup out here with the high pressure over the Great Basin, the cold air because of the clear skies coming down at night, the entire high pressure getting higher pressure and exhaling through the canyons, through the mountains, and making all those winds of those almost hurricane force. Certainly in some spots there were hurricane force and above. Not going to get there tonight.
 
So 20 to 30, but the fire starts are already here. See, the problem, we would have had damage with the wind anyway, but it wouldn't have been such damage had we not had the sparks, had we not had the fire starts. Well, now there are millions of hot spots on this map. So any fire, any ember, any additional fire push could actually make more fires, of course. 
 
Still extreme for tonight all the way through the morning hours, but then by later on this afternoon, things do go down to only critical. And I'm not saying that tongue-in-cheek, but 20 to 30 with a gust of 40 is better than 60 to 70 with a gust to 80. So today will be better. As the sun rises, things will be better out there. And with the firefighters, with the lesser winds, they will be able to get the air assets up in the air and help them out with those water drops for sure.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Earlier, CNN's Anderson Cooper spoke with California Governor Gavin Newsom about efforts to contain the fires and eventually the recovery process as well. Take a listen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
GAVIN NEWSOM, (D) CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR: We've depleted all our resources. Northern California we'd already pre-positioned on Sunday, hundreds of personnel, special units, water attenders, dozers, engines, helicopters, and it wasn't enough.
 
And now we're getting the mutual aid system, the EMAC system. Governors from all across the country are calling. Oregon's sending a few dozen engines. And Arizona, Utah, we're just grateful for all the support.
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR: A lot of these firefighters I was talking to on the street, they've been working, you know, 26, 27 hours. That's just going to continue. I mean, there's enough folks here. NEWSOM: Yes, I mean, we got a few thousand people working on this. And luckily, we were fully staffed. The U.S. Forest Service is not as staffed up traditionally at this time of year. Remember, we're in January.
 
COOPER: It's supposed to be wet this time of year. 
 
NEWSOM: It's supposed to be wet. I mean, so this is, you know, this is anomalous. You know, I remember Paradise happened in November. I mean, so there's no fire season in California. It's year-round. But to have this level of the acuity of fires is without precedent. These winds are without precedent.
 
And the challenge is these winds are going to continue on and off, a little bit less intense. Last night, you had 80-, 90-mile-hour winds. These guys were just up there to try to mitigate the embers going two miles and getting them just to go a quarter of a mile to save some.
 
COOPER: What is the situation with the water? Obviously, in the Palisades, it ran out last night in the hydrants. I was talking to the firefighter on this block. They left because there was no water in the hydrant here.
 
NEWSOM: Local folks are trying to figure that out. I mean, just when you have a system where it's not dissimilar to what we've seen in other extraordinarily large-scale fires, whether it be pipe, electricity, or whether it just be the complete overwhelm of the system. I mean, those hydrants are typical for two or three fires, maybe one fire.
 
You have something at this scale. But, again, that's got to be determined by the local.
 
COOPER: Finally, your message to the folks here, to this community.
 
NEWSOM: I mean, we have their backs, and we're going to be back. And this is going to be a long, long, long recovery process. But look, we have residents moving back into Paradise, California. I've seen remarkable recovery efforts. I've seen a remarkable sense of community, purpose, resilience. 
 <br>[04:10:00]
 
So, you know, I'm not just playing the politician role of optimism. I really am long-term optimistic. But the devastation to hear people wailing and crying, concerned about their pet, their family. They're just bewildered about what they're experiencing. And, again, not just experience. I was not talking past tense. This is happening in real time.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: It's, of course, going to take a lot of resilience to bounce back from this. And we will continue to monitor the wildfires burning in California and bring you any updates we get on that. But now let's get to some of today's other headlines. FOSTER: We are less than two weeks from Donald Trump's inauguration and his recent remarks about American expansionism have alarmed some key allies.
 
MACFARLANE: On Tuesday, he said the U.S. needs Greenland for national security purposes and he's not ruling out military action to acquire the autonomous Danish territory. That's not going over so well in Europe.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JEAN-NOEL BARROT, FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): You are asking me if I think the United States will invade Greenland. The answer is no. Have we entered an era that sees the return of the survival of the fittest?
 
The answer is yes.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: But the U.S. Secretary of State tried to downplay Trump's remarks during a visit to Paris, suggesting they're not worth the oxygen.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ANTONY BLINKEN, U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: The idea expressed about Greenland is obviously not a good one. But maybe more important, it's obviously one that's not going to happen. So we probably shouldn't waste a lot of time talking about it.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: We will be talking about it, won't we, as soon as he's in office, as soon as Nic Robertson has the latest reaction from Greenland and beyond to Trump's territorial ambitions.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): It's the image amplifying President-elect Donald Trump's latest international threat. His son, Donald Jr., landing in Greenland for a private visit. 
 
DONALD TRUMP JR., DONALD TRUMP'S SON: Really excited to be here.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): As his father refused to rule out taking the autonomous Danish territory by force.
 
DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT, 2024 PRESIDENTIAL-ELECT: We need them for economic security. 
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Greenland is not for sale. Greenland will never be for sale.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Danish politicians in particular, outraged by what many see as a Trump stunt.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: The majority in Greenland, they find it quite scary, actually, and quite uncomfortable.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): The world's largest island, home to little more than 56,000 people, with huge strategic and mineral value, is trying to carve out its own place in the world. And it's not for sale, according to its government. But some of its politicians do see a compromise.
 
DUNO FENCKER, GREENLAND PARLIAMENT MEMBER: We are working on creating a sovereign country, which is Greenland. If Trump is talking about a real estate agreement, the U.S. is renting a big area of land in North Greenland, and it should be just very normal to pay for that.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Across the world in Panama, where Trump also warns force is an option, to take back control of the globally vital Panama Canal, there is no negotiation to be had.
 
JAVIER MARTINEZ-ACHA, PANAMANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): Our canal's sovereignty is not negotiable and is part of our history of struggle and an irreversible conquest.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Canada, too, in Trump's crosshairs for annexation. 
 
TRUMP: They should be a state. 
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): With so much rhetoric, the German chancellor appears to compare Trump with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
 
OLAF SCHOLZ, GERMAN CHANCELLOR (through translator): The principle of inviolability of borders applies to every country, regardless of whether it is to the east or west of us. Every country must adhere to that.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Unlike his first term, where world leaders dismiss Trump's often bombastic rhetoric as just that, this time they seem to be preparing for more push and heavy persuasion from the incoming commander-in-chief.
 
METTE FREDERIKSEN, DANISH PRIME MINISTER (through translator): There are a lot of words being spoken right now. We need to stay calm and stick to our principles.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Denmark's newly revamped royal coat of arms, a calibrated hint of that calm. The polar bear representing Greenland just got bigger. 
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: Meantime, Mexico is taking a page out of Trump's own book, pushing back against another idea he recently floated. FOSTER: President Claudia Sheinbaum spoke on Wednesday, a day after Trump suggested that the Gulf of Mexico should be renamed the Gulf of America. The Mexican leader hit back in the same manner, suggesting that other things could be renamed, too.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
CLAUDIA SHEINBAUM, MEXICAN PRESIDENT (through translator): The United Nations recognizes the name Gulf of Mexico, but next, why don't we call it Mexican America? It's the constitution of Apatzingan call it Mexican America since 1607. 
 <br>[04:15:05]
 
So let's call it Mexican America. It sounds nice, doesn't it? Gulf of Mexico since 1607, and it's also internationally recognized.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Trump's idea was also mocked by U.S. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. He said renaming the Gulf was a zany idea.
 
MACFARLANE: And during his visit to the U.S. Capitol, Trump and incoming First Lady Melania visited the casket of former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, who is laying in state at the Rotunda.
 
FOSTER: Trump expected to attend what's being called the National Funeral Service on Thursday with former U.S. Presidents Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama. President Joe Biden is scheduled to deliver remarks at the funeral at the Washington National Cathedral.
 
It'll be interesting to see them all together.
 
MACFARLANE: I know.
 
FOSTER: The President's Club.
 
MACFARLANE: And you can join CNN as the United States mourns the death of the 39th President. Special coverage of Carter's state funeral begins at 8 a.m. Eastern time. That's 1 p.m. here in London.
 
FOSTER: Our breaking news coverage of the wildfires in Southern California continues next. Our Anderson Cooper takes us through one neighborhood where the second largest fire is still out of control.
 
MACFARLANE: Plus, President Joe Biden says he could have defeated Donald Trump if he had remained the Democratic Party's nominee with one stipulation. Details on that ahead.
 
FOSTER: And later, 2025 heralds the dawn of a new generation. We'll talk to an expert about how technology is expected to shape their lives. Stay with us.
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
FOSTER: Breaking news. Crews are now battling five major wildfires across the Los Angeles area. The newest on the top of the Hollywood Hills neighborhood where new evacuations have just been ordered.
 
Overall, about 150,000 people now being told to leave their home.
 
MACFARLANE: Well, most of these fires are not contained at all, fueled by erratic, gusty winds. At least five people have died and the death toll could rise further. More than 1,000 buildings and other structures have been destroyed, including many homes.
 
Cal Fire says the Palisades fire is already the most destructive ever in Los Angeles County.
 
FOSTER: The incoming U.S. president blamed the California governor for the deadly wildfires whilst visiting the capital on Wednesday.
 
MACFARLANE: Donald Trump accused Gavin Newsom of not allowing enough water into the fire hydrants of Los Angeles.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
TRUMP: What's happened is a tragedy and the governor has not done a good job. With that being said, I got along well with him when he was governor. We worked together very well and we would work together. I guess it looks like we're going to be the one having to rebuild it. 
 
But what happened there I don't think is anything that I've ever seen quite like it. And the insurance companies are going to have a big problem because you're talking about big, big dollars.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:20:00] 
 
FOSTER: CNN's Anderson Cooper is in Altadena, California, one of the hardest hit communities where he says the fires are still just out of control. He shows us some of the heartbreaking devastation there.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
COOPER: There just are not enough fire crews able to deal with all the blazes that are going on. This house is completely gone. The next house next door, it looks like the roof has just caught fire over there.
 
The fire has also spread across the street. There are at least three houses ablaze. And then the fire, just in the last two minutes or three minutes, has spread to that vehicle which was parked out front.
 
There was a slight explosion as some of the gas went up. A fire truck passed by here. There's another larger blaze up there which they are going to try to deal with right now.
 
We're at Harriet in Altadena, Harriet Street. The fire has spread now to this house which is really now engulfed in flames. But, I mean, it's just surreal. I mean, look at this, even a small thing, like this tree is burning from the inside. So on this block, I count one, two, I mean, all the houses on this side are gone. Now the fire, look, this house is engulfed.
 
It's very much likely that this house will be next because these winds are now just whipping onto this house. Yes, it is just devastating.
 
And what's so surreal is look down the block. It is block after block here in this area in Altadena. I mean, there's a large, a huge fire there burning several houses.
 
Any other time there would be fire crews blocking off this entire area. But there are just too many fires. And they've just got to, it's triage.
 
COOPER (voice-over): We come upon Captain Chris Dinelli of the L.A. Fire Department. His crew have been out more than 24 hours. 
 
COOPER: How's water? I mean, obviously the Palisades have had water issues. 
 
CAPTAIN CHRIS DONELLI, LOS ANGELES COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENT: Our hydrant ran dry about two minutes ago. 
 
COOPER: And is that the water pressure issue?
 
DONELLI: We are, because there's so many engines tapping the grid and multiple grids, we're basically just taking all the water out of the grid. 
 
COOPER: So what do you do? I mean, you want to fight these fires.
 
DONELLI: We do have water tenders, vehicles that shuttle water to us that carry 2,500 gallons of water. But again, they're stretched thin as well. So they have a lot of demand placed on them.
 
COOPER: So on a scene like this right now, what can you do?
 
DONELLI: We are looking at houses that we can save. So things that we can do, we can clear brush away from fences, things that we can do with our hands or with tools. And we just help some homeowners get out.
 
So just, I mean, first thing is rescue operations. We want you out. Houses can be replaced, all that. Lives cannot.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: We want to go now to a member of our CNN NEWSROOM team. Negar Mahmoodi was visiting family in California when she had to evacuate. And Negar, I just want to say off the top, I mean, you are one of our team. You're one of our writers on this show that we are so pleased to see you are safe and that I hear your family are safe as well. Thanks for being with us today. So Negar, I know you were in the Palisades area. I understand that
 
 these wildfires actually reached your house before you took the decision to evacuate. Just tell us what happened to you.
 
NEGAR MAHMOODI, CNN INTERNATIONAL WRITER: Sure. I mean, we think it started near our house. I got a phone call because the fire started, they're saying, around like 10, 10:30.
 
I got a call from my best friend at 10:35. And she told me, you got to pack up, you got to leave. There's a fire. It's, you know, near our houses. We got to go. She has a six-month-old. She did not have a second to spare. 
 
I ran downstairs, went to the backyard and saw flames in the canyon facing my backyard. And we just went to work.
 
We turned on all our hoses. We're trying to spray into the canyon, trying to dampen it as much as we could because the Santa Ana season, it's dry, it's windy. And then all of a sudden, the flames just like grew exponentially. And I turned around and I was yelling at my family. I was like, we need to go now. 
 
My mom was a bit hesitant at first. She asked if we had gotten a mandatory evacuation warning, like alert on our phones. I said, no, we just, we don't have a second to waste. We have to go now.
 
My parents, my brother and my dogs, they were all in one car. I was in a separate car and we got separated at one point. 
 <br>[04:25:00]
 
By the time I got down Palisades Drive and was on Pacific Coast Highway, that's when I got the mandatory evacuation notice.
 
And by the time the mandatory evacuation notice went out, I think it was not late for some people. People up in the highlands, which is where I was, they weren't letting cars through. So my parents, for example, they had to turn around and go back. By the time they were trying to get back down the hill, they were in a stay-in-shelter notice. And they weren't able to get out until like a few hours later.
 
FOSTER: You're highlighting an issue here with these notices. Not everyone got them. Some people were asleep. And actually, you could only get out if you left before you got the notice, because the roads were suddenly full as soon as people got the notices.
 
MAHMOODI: Exactly. Not only that, but where we live in the highlands, it's one road in, one road out. There is one road, literally it's called a fire road. It's the fire evacuation road, but that road was inaccessible because the fire was much worse where that fire evacuation road would normally take us to safety. 
 
We were in gridlock traffic for a bit. A bunch of people had to abandon their cars. They had to bring bulldozers to bulldoze people's cars out of the way. And, yes, I mean, it was -- I'd never seen anything like it. I've been living up there since I was, you know, eight years old. I have never in my life seen anything like that. And residents up there have never seen anything, experienced anything like that.
 
MACFARLANE: Negar, you've been living there, you said, since you were eight years old. Do you know, is your family home still standing? Are the homes in your neighborhood still standing of the friends you mentioned?
 
MAHMOODI: So my best friend who called me and notified me -- mind you, I was still kind of asleep because I was working on our shows and, you know, we work overnight. The Atlanta team does. So I was still a little bit sleepy when she called me and I jumped out.
 
So she lost -- she found out today while watching the local news, her house is burned to the ground. Her parents also live in the same neighborhood. And that was, mind you, too, that was her and her husband's first house that they bought last year. With a six month old baby and they don't have a home to go to anymore. 
 
My parents house, we'll know in the morning. Honestly, it's one of those, like, take a minute by minute, hour by hour situation. So we're waiting to see in the morning what the situation is.
 
FOSTER: I mean, in these situations, you've just described the sort of loss that people are suffering here. But the reassurance is that, you know, you've got insurance on your home, you can rebuild it. Just explain why that's an issue in California.
 
MAHMOODI: Well, my parents are one of the, you know, thousand or so LA residents, California residents, whose fire insurance, actually their fire insurance policy last year wasn't renewed. And they had to fight like hell -- pardon my language -- to find an insurance company that would offer them a policy. And they're paying an arm and a leg for their monthly premiums.
 
And I know their story isn't unique. It's unfortunately, it's commonplace now for LA residents and California residents. My brother works in real estate and he has the same issue with homebuyers.
 
And he says there's, you know, the contracts now are just, there's all these new contingencies and clauses. And the premiums are just out of control. And that's if you can get a policy.
 
FOSTER: OK, Negar, thank you so much for bringing us your story. And so glad you're safe.
 
MACFARLANE: Thank you for being with us, Negar. And we're really pleased that you're safe. And we hope that your family will find their home intact in the morning. Thanks for being with us.
 
FOSTER: I mean, you know, the double, so you've got losing everything. Then you've got --
 
MACFARLANE: The financial ruin on top of the emotional ruin.
 
FOSTER: Then some people aren't going to have insurance. But even the people that do have insurance, the rate, you know, the premiums are going to go up even more now because of what's happened.
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, the aftermath is not going to be pretty. 
 
The World Central Kitchen is on the ground in Los Angeles providing meals to first responders and families impacted by the devastating fires. The non-profit says its relief teams have been mobilizing across the region to provide comforting meals to those in need.
 
FOSTER: The charity says it's partnered with restaurants and food trucks to provide nutritious food. Founded by chef Jose Andre, World Central Kitchen is dedicated to providing fresh meals in crisis locations around the world.
 
MACFARLANE: How government critics keep disappearing in Kenya, including one whose abduction was caught on camera. But some have now resurfaced and they're describing what they went through. That story is ahead.
 
FOSTER: Plus, we'll get back to the breaking news on the wildfires in Southern California and how one couple is coping after losing their home in the flames.