Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: 55 Million Americans Under Winter Alerts Across U.S.; Thousands Without Power in UK as Travel Disruption Mount; Hamas, Israel Appear to Differ Over Hostage Deal; Trump's Favorability Ahead of Inauguration; Golden Globes Night in Hollywood. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired January 06, 2025 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. Here are some of the top stories we're following today. 
 
More than 55 million Americans are under winter storm alerts across the U.S., with a powerful weather system dumping a dangerous mix of snow and ice throughout the Midwest and mid-Atlantic regions. Hundreds of flights have already been canceled in and out of the Washington, D.C. metropolitan airports. 
 
But despite the severe weather winter expected today in Washington, House Speaker Mike Johnson's office says Congress will meet to certify the results of the 2024 election. Remember that it was on this day four years ago that a violent mob stormed the Capitol in an effort to overturn the 2020 election results.
 
And finally, the New England Patriots have fired head coach Gerard Mayo after just one season. The Patriots beat the Buffalo Bills on Sunday but finished with a dismal 4-13 record overall this season. Mayo had taken over from legendary Patriots coach Bill Belichick.
 
MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: More than 55 million Americans are under winter storm alerts across the U.S., with a powerful weather system moving eastwards over the Ohio River Valley and mid-Atlantic regions. Blizzard conditions throughout Kansas and Missouri have left tens of thousands of people without power, and local authorities are working to clear the highways that have been closed. A dangerous mix of snow and sleet is falling over parts of Kentucky, Illinois, and Indiana.
 
Roads in the region are covered in thick layers of ice, causing numerous accidents over the weekend.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
JOEL SCHIPPER, WDRB ANCHOR: Governor Beshear is saying stay off the roads. Of course, the mayor here in Louisville is saying if you do not need to drive, do not drive. Emergency management crews and only necessary workers on the roads.
 
ALEXA MINTON, METEOROLOGIST AND REPORTER, WKYT: After picking up a little over a half a foot of snow in a lot of areas, we're now seeing the transition into sleet and freezing rain. We actually just heard a little bit of thunder sleet in our area. 
 
I want to go ahead and take a look at one of the vehicles that's near us. You can see a problem with some of that freezing rain, obviously, freezed over this car already within the past 30 minutes or so. We've watched this windshield freeze over, so definitely some concerns.
 
We're worried about power outages. You know, it only takes about a quarter of an inch of ice to cause a heavy weight on those power lines. And once you add in winds, the snow and then the wraparound snow we're expected to get on Monday could cause some real power problems for a lot of the state.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER: Well, the mayor of Washington, D.C., has declared a snow emergency, preparing for as much as 16 inches or 40 centimeters of snow. The weather there could impact several major events this week, including the certification of the presidential election and the funeral services for former President Jimmy Carter.
 
MACFARLANE: Well, winter weather is also impacting parts of Europe. Much of the U.K. and Germany have been blanketed under heavy snowfall, disrupting travel and causing power outages across the region.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER (voice-over): It may look pretty from above, but heavy snow covering parts of Europe over the weekend caused widespread disruption to travelers on roads, railways and in the air. Snow and freezing rain cut power to tens of thousands of homes in Northern England. And the U.K. Met Office warned that sleet and snow could lead to flooding in some areas when the icy mixture thaws. 
 
Airports in Liverpool, Manchester, Birmingham, Leeds and Bristol were forced to close some runways temporarily. And several roads were impacted, with conditions slicker than usual, at a time when many people were traveling, returning from Christmas break or heading back to university. 
 
Much of the same problem in Ireland, parts of which were also coated in snow. The Irish Weather Service says that bitter cold conditions will continue over the next few days, at a time when nearly 60,000 homes, farms and businesses were without power. 
 
German officials warned of black ice for drivers and pedestrians, as the snow and ice snarls transportation here too. Frankfurt and Munich airports warned passengers of potential delays or cancellations. And some authorities are advising people to stay at home if possible. 
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
FOSTER (on camera): Yes, we had a bit of snow, but interesting that the football is still on, despite the fact that we couldn't fly anywhere.
 
MACFARLANE: I know, it's just the U.K. transport system that really seems to struggle with any degree of difference.
 
FOSTER: We would have thought we got used to a bit of snow and rain by now.
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
MACFARLANE: Heat, but sadly not. 
 
Now Ukrainian forces are refusing to give up on Russia's Kursk region after months of holding their ground. Ukrainian officials say they're launching surprise counter-attacks against Russian fighters who are trying to reclaim the territory.
 
FOSTER: Russia's defense ministry says it's repelling those attacks, but Ukrainian military officials say, quote, Russia is getting what it deserves.
 
MACFARLANE: Well meanwhile, Russia's military says it's making advances in Ukraine's Donetsk region. A Russian military blog claims that fighters have raised a flag near the key Ukrainian transit hub.
 
FOSTER: Ukraine's president trying to pave the way for a good relationship with the incoming U.S. president. Vladimir Zelenskyy praised Donald Trump during a conversation with an American podcaster.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: When I talk about something with Donald Trump, whether we meet in person or we just have a call, all the European leaders always ask, how was it? This shows the influence of Donald Trump. And this has never happened before.
 
With an American president, I tell you, from my experience, this also gives you confidence, you know, that he can stop this war. That is why we and Trump come first and Europe will support Ukraine's position. Because they understand that Ukraine has every right to have its voice heard in this because we are at war.
 
Trump and I will come to an agreement and then if, and I am sure that he can offer strong security guarantees together with Europe and then we can talk to the Russians.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: But Mr. Zelenskyy insists that neither he nor anyone in Ukraine would accept an unjust compromise with Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
 
Now there may be some progress in the Gaza ceasefire and hostage release talks. Reuters is reporting that a Hamas official says the group have approved an Israeli list of 34 hostages to be exchanged for Palestinian prisoners and detainees.
 
But the Israeli government denies receiving a list of hostages from Hamas. FOSTER: According to the Reuters report, the exchange is contingent on reaching an agreement for Israel's withdrawal from Gaza and a permanent ceasefire. White House Middle East advisor Brett McGurk is amongst the officials in the latest rounds of indirect talks in Doha. And sources say Israeli Minister Ron Dermer is expected to travel to Washington this week to meet with the Biden administration and Trump transition officials.
 
MACFARLANE: Well meanwhile, ceasefire and hostage release negotiations are underway. Israel is ramping up attacks in Gaza. Gaza civil defense says four Israeli strikes on a residential building in northern Gaza killed 12 members of the same family on Sunday.
 
FOSTER: One member of the family says a child was found alive in the rubble, but 11 other people are still missing.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
WISSAM ZUHD, GAZA RESIDENT (through translator): We pulled out flesh and remains and there are still more trapped under the rubble. These are people who have no ties to resistant fighters or anything. We are here on the border of the conflict area, but now it is considered a red zone.
 
They attack us every day now with missiles and bombs dropped by drones among the people. Everyone is at risk of being bombed at any moment.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: Gaza's health ministry is reporting that 88 Palestinians were killed on Sunday alone, bringing the total death toll to nearly 46,000 since October 2023.
 
MACFARLANE: Meanwhile, health officials in Gaza say another Palestinian baby has died from hypothermia. Low temperatures and a lack of access to warm shelters are being blamed for the deaths of at least now six babies there in recent weeks.
 
FOSTER: Miserable isn't it. 
 
After the Capitol riot four years ago, many commentators thought Donald Trump had no future left in politics. We'll do a deep dive into his approval ratings and how he defied those expectations.
 
MACFARLANE: Plus, a new law has just made it more expensive to visit New York City by car, but city officials believe that's a good thing. We'll tell you why.
 <br>[04:40:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MACFARLANE: Welcome back. We are just hours away from the U.S. Congress meeting to certify Donald Trump's election win four years to the day after the attack on the Capitol. FOSTER: Trump's poll rating sank in the aftermath of that shameful episode, but over the past four years, they've made a remarkable recovery. CNN's Harry Enten and Manu Raju break down the numbers for you.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: Remember, after January 6th, what do we have? We had the impeachment of Donald Trump. And then, of course, we had the trial in the United States Senate.
 
I want you to take a look at Republicans who voted to impeach or convict Trump in his second impeachment or impeachment trial. You know, you go back to January, February of 2021, what was it? It was 17.
 
You know, that's a significant chunk of folks, right, Manu? It wasn't, most of the GOP didn't, but 17 is a pretty big number here. 
 
MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Absolutely.
 
ENTEN: And then you go to January of 2025. How many of those folks are still in the United States Congress? It's just five. It's just five. Pretty much the ones who did were all run out of town. They're just two House members, three Senate members who remain.
 
The bottom line is this, and we'll say over and over and over again, this is Donald Trump's Republican Party. That's why he could pick up the phone, make those calls to ensure that Mike Johnson held on to his speakership. But it's not just within the Republican Party.
 
It's nationally among the general populace as well. So take a look at Donald Trump's net favorable rating. Take a look here, Trump's net favorability rating. You go back to January 2021. Donald Trump was way underwater, way underwater, minus 20 points. That's your favorable minus your unfavorable.
 
Look, he's still a little bit underwater, but he's now at minus one point. He's considerably more popular. So folks who are writing off Donald Trump's political career, writing his political obituary, he rose up from the grave.
 
He almost looks like one of those WWE characters, right, who kind of rose up. And that is what Donald Trump has did. He's right now broke even.
 
He's about as popular with the American public, Manu, than he has ever been.
 
RAJU: And he's been talking about on the first day when he comes into office pardoning all these January 6th prisoners. How does that fare with the American public's view?
 
ENTEN: Yes, how does that fare? Well, I will tell you, it ain't popular. It ain't popular. Donald Trump may be more popular than he's ever been, but the idea of him pardoning these January 6th protesters is simply not a popular proposition. You look overall, it's 33 percent. It's 33 percent.
 
Look at the opposition. 59 percent of the American public. You can barely get 59 percent of the American public to agree on anything. But they do agree on opposing Trump pardoning the January 6th protesters, even among the Republican Party. Look at this number. Yes, it's two- thirds who support it at 67 percent.
 
But, you know, Donald Trump's favorable rating with the Republican Party is like 85 percent, 90 percent.
 
RAJU: That's low for Trump.
 
ENTEN: This is low for Trump. You have this 21 percent who are opposed to it. That is a pretty significant chunk of folks who are opposed to it.
 
So, yes, Republicans like Donald Trump, but they aren't necessarily in love with the idea of pardoning. Certainly not overall. 
 <br>[04:45:00]
 
Now, you may be asking yourself, OK, how the heck then did Donald Trump win that election back in November, right?
 
Given that you see this support and you see this opposition among the American public. And most Americans, I will note in our CNN poll, said that they expected that Trump was going to try and pardon. How did it work then?
 
Well, take a look at January 6th memories. Take a look here. All right.
 
January 6th is the biggest memory of Trump's first term. Look at this. 
 
RAJU: Wow.
 
ENTEN: Why?
 
RAJU: That is something. That is something.
 
ENTEN: It's just 5 percent. 
 
I mean, most folks simply were willing to dismiss it without much of an issue. And among Republicans, what do we see? It was just 2 percent.
 
So even though you had that significant chunk of Republicans who said we oppose it, even though the vast majority of Americans opposed it, the bottom line when it came to November, even when it comes now, most Americans, simply put, Manu, are not thinking about it.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE) FOSTER: A new documentary about Melania Trump due out later this year. There's no title right now and few details, but the incoming U.S. first lady will serve as an executive producer. Pretty much means she'll have all the editorial control, of course.
 
MACFARLANE: The documentary began filming in December and is slated for a theatrical release as well as streaming on Amazon Prime Video. This follows the release of Melania Trump's autobiography in October, which remains a bestseller on Amazon and hit number one on the New York Times bestseller list. But she only began filming in December a month ago or a year ago?
 
Anyway, sorry. Just something I saw and I wondered. 
 
Meanwhile, President Joe Biden signed the Social Security Fairness Act into law on Sunday. The bypassing bill was passed by Congress in December and will increase benefits for almost three million federal, state and local workers. The reform eliminates policies that reduce social security payouts for retirees who receive pensions from state or local governments.
 
FOSTER: Critics say the change will only hasten the day when the Social Security Trust Fund will be unable to pay full benefits. But President Biden says it's all about fairness.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The bill I'm signing today is about a simple proposition. Americans who have worked hard all their lives to earn an honest living should be able to retire with economic security and dignity. That's the entire purpose of the social security system crafted by Franklin Delano Roosevelt nearly 90 years ago.
 
Social security is a bedrock of financial security for retirees and survivors and for millions of Americans with disabilities.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: Now, being stuck in New York City's notoriously bad traffic now comes with an extra cost, $9 a day to be exact. It's a new congestion pricing scheme that was meant to reduce traffic.
 
FOSTER: As we've had in London for a few years. Manhattan's streets are often crippled by gridlock. Officials hope the congestion pricing will keep fewer drivers on the roads at the worst time of day. They also hope to raise millions of dollars to improve public transportation.
 
MACFARLANE: Other cities around the world, as we were saying, have already implemented congestion pricing, including here in London. But this is the first such law in the entire United States.
 
FOSTER: It probably did make a difference to begin with, but then you seem to get more traffic sort of coming in off the back of it. MACFARLANE: I think it's allowed for bikes to flourish in London, which has been a very good thing. And actually speaking to a New Yorker recently about this, that was his hope too, is that it would enable e-bikes and other types of bikes to -- because it's too dangerous at the moment to cycle around New York.
 
FOSTER: But the problem with it as a driver, I'd say, is remembering, because I don't live in London, it's easy to forget. I mean, you get stung. 
 
MACFARLANE: True.
 
FOSTER: So it's quite -- you can't really work out where it starts and ends, but,
 
MACFARLANE: But then don't drive in London. That's what they want, isn't it?
 
FOSTER: Yes. Sometimes you -- some people have to, to be fair.
 
A few surprises at the Golden Globes. We'll find out who won big. Who was disappointed?
 <br>[04:50:00]
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI GLASER, HOST: Welcome to the 82nd Golden Globes, Ozempics biggest. The Bear, the Penguin, Baby Reindeer. These are not just things found in RFK's freezer. These are TV shows nominated tonight. 
 
And Challengers, girl, oh, my God, it was so good. I mean, that movie was more sexually charged than Diddy's credit card. I mean, seriously.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOSTER: A wrap for the 82nd Golden Globe Awards, hosted by the first solo female host.
 
MACFARLANE: About time.
 
FOSTER: Nikki Glaser, absolutely. She nailed it as well, apparently.
 
MACFARLANE: Yes. A big winner of the night, though, was Amelia Perez, winning Best Motion Picture, Music or Comedy, Best Supporting Actress, Best Foreign Language Film and Best Original Song.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Demi Moore.
 
(CHEERING)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP) MACFARLANE: Demi Moore also won Best Female Actor in a Film, Music or Comedy for her performance in The Substance.
 
FOSTER: At last.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
DEMI MOORE, ACTOR: In those moments when we don't think we're smart enough or pretty enough or skinny enough or successful enough or basically just not enough, I had a woman say to me, just know you will never be enough, but you can know the value of your worth if you just put down the measuring stick.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: You know, Max, it was such a great speech, but clearly she has been waiting her whole career to give it.
 
FOSTER: It's crazy. I'm such a fan. She's like a cultural icon.
 
I mean, a ghost on its own. You mentioned this, but, you know, maybe the critics didn't like it, but it had a profound effect on a lot of people.
 
MACFARLANE: It really did. It still does. But it's crazy they haven't honored her in some way, I suppose.
 
FOSTER: I guess it gives it's just, you know, we're talking about it now. She deserves it.
 
Last hour, I spoke with television presenter Andrew Freund about the big winner, that is, Amelia Perez, and what films he felt were snubbed.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
ANDREW FREUND, TELEVISION HOST: I would say Amelia Perez was definitely the big film winner with four awards. I would also say that, you know, The Brutalist won the Drama Award, and on the TV side, Shogun won four awards. Shogun, also a hugely popular show.
 
People are obsessed with that. So there were definitely, you know, some huge, huge winners. But, you know, there were also some snubs too.
 
FOSTER: Yes, take us through them.
 
FREUND: So, you know, the biggest snub, I think, is Wicked. You know, you can't move anywhere around the world without seeing something about Wicked, and it only won one award in the ceremony, the Cinematic Achievement Award. So, to me, that was kind of the biggest snub.
 
Another snub was the film Onora. Onora's getting a lot of buzz around a lot of circles, and it got zero awards, nothing, nada.
 <br>[04:55:00] FOSTER: Yes, in terms -- I mean, this is often the award ceremonies that, you know, there's a committee that decides who wins, and it's often seen to be out of touch because you'll have a blockbuster, which is, by definition, a successful film and a good film, whether or not the critics like it. How much of a debate is that in Hollywood at the moment?
 
FREUND: You know, I think it is a little bit of a debate. I will say that Golden Globes is made up of 334 entertainment journalists from 85 countries around the world, so it's a very international voting membership, which is why I'm not shocked that Amelia Perez did so well, because it's a very international film. French director, French songwriters, set in Mexico.
 
So, it just -- you know, when we come to the Oscars, the nominations are coming out on the 17th. It's a whole different ballgame, a whole different voting membership.
 
So, you know, time will, I guess, tell.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: I think many will be shocked by the fact that Wicked didn't win anything, right? Nothing last night.
 
FOSTER (on camera): I just don't understand how a film can be everywhere, everyone watches it and it doesn't win an award.
 
MACFARLANE: Anyway, in north-eastern China, the city of Harbin is hosting an annual spectacle of ice and snow with average temperatures well below freezing. The festival, which runs from December to February, draws visitors from around the world.
 
FOSTER: In addition to the brightly lit ice and snow sculptures, there are nightly fireworks displays. Other events, including a snow dog carnival. No, is that right?
 
Snow carnival with dog sledding. Well done.
 
MACFARLANE: What a great idea.
 
FOSTER: It's all well lit. According to the organizers, this year's event is the largest in history and it incorporates elements from the ninth Asian Winter Games, which will be held in Harbin next month.
 
MACFARLANE: Ah, very nice. And to Spain now, where the streets of Madrid came alive for the annual Three Kings Parade. Thousands of spectators gathered to watch the kings make their way along the parade route amid the costumes of lights with giant colorful frogs and highlighted the event.
 
FOSTER: Can you explain that?
 
MACFARLANE: No idea.
 
FOSTER: A celebration that does mark the end of Christmas on the eve of Epiphany. Frog Day, let's call it that.
 
MACFARLANE: Frog Day, what a great day. 
 
Thank you for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Christina Macfarlane.
 <br>[05:00:00]