Headline: CNN Live Event/Special
Sub-headline: Congress Certifies Trump's Election Victory 4 Years After Jan. 6th Riot; Harris Speaks After Certifying Trump's Election Victory; Pentagon Agrees To Settlement With LGBTQ-Plus Veterans. Aired 2:30-3p ET

Aired January 06, 2025 - 14:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[14:30:00] 
 
AQUILINO GONELL, FORMER U.S. CAPITOL POLICE SERGEANT: Sometimes we would be retaliated to the point that even some of the benefits that we are entitled to apply for have been denied, especially the ones of the Department of Justice where officers from January 6th were -- that program was changed specifically for officers. 
 
And yet, the person that had the final say is a political Republican appointee that obviously doesn't believe that nothing wrong happened on January 6th, including officers who were injured and multiple officers, including myself, had been denied that benefit. 
 
Unfortunately, a Congressman -- a Senator from Maryland created a GoFundMe for myself and it led to that wrongful decision. And I hope that your audience can help me support my family in the meantime.
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: Former Capitol Police Officer Aquilino Gonell, thank you. 
 
And Harry Dunn, as well.
 
CNN political analyst, Maggie Haberman, joins us now. 
 
Maggie, what are the expectations Trump -- the president-elect just said on January 6th that he denied Joe Biden. He had the transition and now will have the transition that he denied Joe Biden.
 
Where is the former presidents head at now as he prepares for taking take office? 
 
MAGGIE HABERMAN, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: Look, he continues to try to say he has a historic mandate. He doesn't have an historic mandate, Anderson. But he certainly does have a form of a mandate. He, you know, won the popular vote, the first Republican to do it in 20 years. 
 
I think that he is going to focus on a series of day-one actions and I think we're going to see them, you know, seeking to essentially swamp the system, for lack of a better way of putting it, and you know, just overwhelm the system.
 
And I think you will see a lot of that on immigration. I think you will see a lot on a number of other campaign promises.
 
The one that is unclear, Anderson, is, what does Trump do about these pardons that he said he was going to do or suggested he is likely to do for some of the people arrested in connection with the January 6th attack by a pro Trump mob during the certification of his successor's election?
 
Now, it's one thing that people didn't vote with January 6th and Trump's lies about the election as their guidepost. But it's entirely different than to try to test the system and see what people will tolerate with these pardons.
 
There's not a huge appetite for them nationally. So we will see what that looks like. 
 
COOPER: Yes. I mean, he's called them hostages repeatedly on the campaign trail, you know, playing records of them singing the national anthem. How broad do you think those pardons might be? 
 
HABERMAN: I think there is a debate within Trump's world about what exactly to do.
 
And to that pardon, I think the point that the officer was making is that Trump ran as a pro-law enforcement candidate but these were officers in a number of cases who we're injured. And these were officers who were guarding against Trump supporters, guarding this building.
 
This is a complicated bit of messaging for Trump. And you know, it is going to be interesting to see who he decides, if he ultimately does go ahead with what he said he wants to do, who he decides is worthy of the clemency grant here. 
 
COOPER: Maggie Haberman, thanks so much. I appreciate it.
 
And back over here, we continue in New York. 
 
Congressman Adam Kinzinger, should President Biden issue pardons for January 6th Committee members, including yourself? 
 
ADAM KINZINGER, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: No. I don't want it. Look, here's --
 
COOPER: You don't want it?
 
KINZINGER: No. Because the second a pardon is issued -- and, look, I understand the theory behind it. Because Donald Trump said he will go after everybody.
 
And it's not going to be for the January 6th investigation. What they will do is they'll weaponize other investigations and look into everything and start an investigation that will end up coming to naught, force people to pay money.
 
This happened to Brad Raffensperger in Georgia. And he was forced to defend himself. But as soon as you take a pardon, it looks like you are guilty of something. I am guilty of nothing, besides bringing the truth to the American people. And in the process, embarrassing Donald Trump.
 
Because, for 187 minutes, he sat there and did absolutely nothing and showed how weak and scared he truly was. So, no, I don't want it.
 
And, you know, the bottom line is, I mean, if he wants to bring -- if he wants to bring up January 6th again -- we've had this talk about how we're moving on from January 6th and trust me, Anderson, I would love to.
 
Like, my life has been defined by this for four years. And if he wants to bring it back, I will be happy to talk about everything the committee did and learned and --
 
COOPER: Well --
 
KINZINGER: -- re-embarrass him. 
 
COOPER: -- what some people may not realize is you're saying you don't want a pardon. But in fighting whatever may come your way can cost you and your family a lot of money. 
 
KINZINGER: Yes, when you think about it --
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
KINZINGER: And this happened with Brad Raffensperger. And people would just sue him. And so he'd have to defend himself. And he had to defend himself out of personal money. 
 
You know, I have insurance for my time in office but, still, you have to defend yourself, spend money.
 
And then, ultimately, DOJ or whatever says, yes, we didn't find anything but, three years later after this spending. This is how they weaponize this. 
 
It's not going to be that they're going to come after you for actual January 6th investigation. They'll make -- but, you know what? The thing I take into account is, I will use that as an opportunity to show the American people what the country should not be, ever be again.
 
And if that is a process to save, you know, democracy, then I am happy to fight that fight. 
 
ALYSSA FARAH GRIFFIN, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: There is also kind of an effort about this, yes, it's about intimidation and harassment. Also to smear people in a hyper-polarized environment, that can be dangerous. That's just a fact. 
 <br>[14:35:08]
 
When people's actions are misrepresented, when things are called treasonous that are very much in line with the law and congressional procedure. 
 
But to Adam's point, I have not heard anyone who, outright, said they would like a pardon. Because I don't think anyone believes they did anything wrong on that committee. 
 
But what stuns me is that Donald Trump won. Yet, you had Mike Johnson say they would investigate the committee. Donald Trump still talks about January 6th. The unwillingness to move on and take a beat from what was one of the darkest days in his first term and just be forward-looking. 
 
There is so much this Congress can do that could be really good for the American people. It is not investigating Liz Cheney. That is a waste of time, taxpayer dollars, and it is not what people elected him to do. 
 
ABBY PHILLIP, CNN ANCHOR: It's an attempt to change the subject. Because part of the process of whitewashing January 6th and the events of that day is trying to make this not about that but the people we were looking into it. 
 
And turning pretty routine conduct of the Congress people, yourself included, Adam, into something criminal is part of the plan that is designed to distract. 
 
And I do think it is probably going to be enabled by pretty senior people in the Congress. And that we should probably just get used to it. This is the reality.
 
Trump, in a way, not only does he want to do it but I think his base is giving him no choice. He ran on doing this. So I think that's one of the reasons that we can expect it. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
COOPER: Go ahead.
 
ASHLEY ALLISON, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: I actually think that is why the last time we talked about the nominees, like Kash Patel -- Kash Patel isn't very clear that he wants to lead the charge with the FBI in doing some of these investigations. 
 
So that could actually be one signal for the Senate to say, we don't want to go down that path, we want to -- and push back on his nomination.
 
Look, I will sound like a broken record. There is an opportunity here for Donald Trump. I'm not going to agree with his policies, policies he put forth in the tax bill or on immigration. 
 
But he could be a leader and earn some of my respect by acknowledging the mistakes of the past and saying we are moving forward. I am highly doubtful he will do that. 
 
But there is an opportunity. Because we are an extremely divided country and there are many Americans that did not want him to be reelected because of January 6th. 
 
And there is a chance and an opportunity for him to govern. But I think he will be distracted by retribution. 
 
SCOTT JENNINGS, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, first of all, I think when he has said in the past that retribution will be our success, I think that's the correct way to look at it. 
 
You know, this has been a strange period because the events of January 6th, the following investigations and legal actions after that, and all of the other investigations and the lawfare against him, ultimately, the American people had to look at all of this on Election Day and make a decision. 
 
And they did. So if I were in his shoes, I wouldn't feel happy about everything that I had to live through and everything that happened to me on all of those fronts.
 
But I would feel extremely vindicated about what happened to me politically. And moving forward, the best possible vindication here for him as a president would be to pass the laws that you said you were going to pass, fix the immigration system you were going to fix. Get the economy under control for everyday people, unleash American energy.
 
You know, all of these things you ran on. If you we're able to do that, you would be remembered not just is the greatest comeback story politically of all time but as a really good president. 
 
And so I think there is a way to do all that while leaving the past in the past and accepting the vindication of the politics of Election Day. 
 <br>[14:38:39]
 
COOPER: Stay with CNN as we stand by for the expected remarks by Vice President Kamala Harris on Capitol Hill. The coverage continues right after this break. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:43:36]
 
BORIS SANCHEZ, CNN HOST: Thanks so much for joining us for our special live coverage from the nation's capital where, a short time ago, Congress certified the 2024 presidential election results and Donald Trump's victory in that race. 
 
This is a far cry from where we were on this day four years ago when a mob of MAGA supporters stormed the capital, attempting to delay the certification process, causing damage, death and a permanent stain on America's promise to always have a peaceful transfer of power. 
 
Now Trump's opponent, Vice President Kamala Harris, fulfilled her duty by announcing the results of the Electoral College vote in the halls of Congress. And she just spoke to cameras moments ago. 
 
Listen to this. 
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
KAMALA HARRIS, VICE PRESIDENT OF HE UNITED STATES &amp; SENATE PRESIDENT: It was obviously a very important day. And it was about what should be the norm and what the American people should be able to take for granted, which is one of the most important pillars of our democracy is that there will be a peaceful transfer of power. 
 
And today, I did what I have done my entire career, which is take seriously the oath that I have taken many times to defend the Constitution of the United States.
 
Which included today performing my constitutional duties to ensure that the people of America and the voters of America will have their votes counted and that those votes matter and that they will determine then the outcome of an election.
 <br>[14:45:04] 
 
And I do believe very strongly that America's democracy is only as strong as our willingness to fight for it. Every single person, their willingness to fight for and respect the importance of our democracy. 
 
Otherwise it is very fragile and it will not be able to withstand moments of crisis. And today, America's democracy stood. 
 
(CROSSTALK)
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
SANCHEZ: Let's go live to CNN's Lauren Fox who is on Capitol Hill for us. 
 
Lauren, obviously, this is the first election certification since the capital was attacked. How did the proceedings play out? 
 
LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, and in many ways, this day was really unremarkable. And Democrats said they worked really hard to sort of ensure that that was the way that today's proceedings played out. 
 
Obviously, the shoe was on the other foot for Democrats today than it was four years ago. Instead of certifying the results of a presidential election where a Democrat won, they were certifying the results where a Republican won.
 
And not just any Republican but Donald Trump, who many Democrats blame still on Capitol Hill for really inciting rioters to come to the capitol four years ago. 
 
And, you know, I talked to a lot of Democrats going into today and after today's proceeds. And I will note, you know, a lot of them were really emotional about what took place four years ago. 
 
Here's one of them, Rep. Jim Himes.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
REP. JIM Himes (D-T): And I am a keep-calm, carry-on guy. But, you know, that day was traumatic enough for even those of us who like to keep calm and carry on, it caused an upwelling of emotion. 
 
I can feel the anger and I can feel the resentment, which I don't, by the way, celebrate. But it's exacerbated by the fact that about a week after this terrible event that made a laughingstock of American democracy around the work, you've got Kevin McCarthy going down to Mar-a-Lago to try to patch things up. 
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
FOX: And the entire proceeding took just under an hour as lawmakers moved really swiftly through certifying each state's Electoral College results.
 
You know, and, obviously, one of the most remarkable scenes was Kamala Harris who presided over the United States Senate. Obviously, she lost the election in November. She was the one who ultimately certified the election results and proclaimed Donald Trump the next president of the United States.
 
Again, this is really a formality. On Capitol Hill, typically, a lot of viewers may not have even paid attention prior to four years ago on Capitol Hill. But obviously, a lot has transpired since then. 
 
And an unremarkable, uneventful day as certification took place, once again, on January 6th -- Boris?
 
SANCHEZ: Lauren Fox, live for us on Capitol Hill, thank you so much. 
 
We still have more news to get to, not just here in the United States but around the world as well. You're watching CNN News Central. We will be back in just a moment. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
14:52:47]
 
SANCHEZ: The Pentagon has reached a legal settlement with tens of thousands of gay and lesbian military personnel dismissed under the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy.
 
A civil rights complaint revealed that some former service members said they had been denied an honorable discharge and access to veteran services. 
 
CNN Pentagon reporter, Oren Liebermann, joins us now with more.
 
 Oren, bring us up to speed. OREN LIEBERMANN, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: Boris, the entire purpose
 
 of this lawsuit that was filed about a year and a half ago and the settlement here that the plaintiffs say they have reached is to correct the records of thousands of the servicemembers who were discharged under "Don't Ask, Don't Tell." 
 
The total number discharged was 30,000 and this, according to the plaintiffs, could affect about 18,000 of those, so a very large group here.
 
The purpose is to correct the records. If the record upon discharge, has the words "discriminatory, sexual orientation" indicators as part of the reason this service member left the military, this settlement agreement aims to correct that.
 
Without going through a formal Board of Corrections process, which could be timely and difficult, this effectively makes everything simpler and more efficient and could help thousands of servicemembers, according to the plaintiffs here. 
 
We should note that we have reached out to the Department of Defense for comment here. They haven't confirmed a settlement has been reached. The plaintiffs say there is an agreement in this case.
 
This has been an ongoing process, as you can tell, that, for years, tried to correct the records for those who were discharged under "Don't Ask, Don't Tell." 
 
And this, a big part of it, was actually to make it easier to show an honorable discharge and, if they want, an option to re-enlist much faster. 
 
SANCHEZ: And, Oren, the Pentagon had seen efforts like this before. I wonder, where do those stand and how are they different than this? 
 
LIEBERMANN: Those efforts are ongoing as well. It was just several months ago that the Pentagon announced that they had actively reviewed the records of some 800 servicemembers and upgraded their discharge so they had an honorable discharge. 
 
But the first difference is the numbers here that affected 800 servicemembers. This, according to the plaintiffs, could affect 18,000.
 
And second, it's just part of the broader effort here to correct those records.
 
So affectively the same purpose here, to correct and fix the records and do right by those who were discharged under "Don't Ask, Don't Tell." 
 <br>[14:55:05]
 
This appears to affect a much larger group. We will see how many sign onto this effort to correct their records from years ago. 
 
SANCHEZ: Oren Liebermann, live from the Pentagon, thank you so much for the update on that. 
 
Coming up, four years after the insurrection at the Capitol on January 6, 2021, Congress certified today the electoral victory of President- Elect Donald Trump. The latest on what unfolded after a few minutes. 
 
Stay with us. 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[15:00:03]
 
SANCHEZ: Four years after Donald Trump supporters invaded the capital trying to stop the certification of President Joe Biden's electoral victory, Congress met again --