Headline: CNN Newsroom
Sub-headline: FBI: New Orleans Attacker 100 Percent Inspired by ISIS; Memos Show Law Enforcement Warned of Vehicle Rammings; ISIS Attacks Increased Significantly in 2024; U.S. House Gears Up for Potentially Chaotic Speaker Vote; Dozens of Migrants Die in Shipwrecks Off Coast of Tunisia; Sugar Bowl Takes Place After Moment of Silence for Victims. Aired 4:30-5a ET

Aired January 03, 2025 - 04:30 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
<br>[04:30:00] 
 
CHRISTINA MACFARLANE, CNN ANCHOR: Hello, welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Christina Macfarlane. If you're just joining us, here are some of the top stories we're following today.
 
Investigators in South Korea have suspended their efforts to use an arrest warrant to detain President Yoon Suk Yeol. These are live images you're seeing here outside the president's residence, where Yoon's supporters are celebrating right now. The warrant stems from his short-lived martial law declaration.
 
Authorities entered the embattled president's compound but were blocked by his security team. The warrant lasts until Monday, but it could be extended. 
 
Now authorities are working to determine a motive in the Cybertruck blast outside the Trump Hotel in Las Vegas.
 
The driver has been identified as Matthew Alan Livelsberger. The 37- year-old is a new father and a decorated U.S. Army Green Beret. Seven people were injured in the explosion. Police say the driver shot himself before the blast. 
 
The tourist Mecca of Bourbon Street in New Orleans is open again after the New Year's terror attack that left 14 people dead. The FBI says 42-year-old Shamsud-Din Jabbar was quote a hundred percent inspired by ISIS. The agency says it believes he acted alone. 
 
There are new questions regarding potential warning signs about vehicle attacks in the US that may have been missed. In 2019, security assessments showed Bourbon Street in New Orleans was particularly vulnerable.
 
More from CNN's Brian Todd.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As law enforcement officials scrambled to determine the motive of the New Orleans suspect, new information on recent warnings that these very same types of attacks could occur. According to two internal memos obtained by CNN, the Department of Homeland Security, the FBI, and the National Counterterrorism Center issued a joint bulletin to law enforcement agencies on December 6th warning about threats from lone wolf offenders and the possibility of vehicle rammings. 
 
The bulletin warns that lone wolves could hit, quote, Soft targets in the homeland during winter holidays and that those offenders have historically used simple tactics such as edged weapons, firearms, or vehicle ramming.
 
BETH SANNER, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: The big picture on this attack is that this has actually been a long time coming and now we're at a point where the American public are waking up.
 
TODD (voice-over): Indeed, back in 2010 Al-Qaeda's branch in Yemen published an article calling vehicles the ultimate mowing machine, promoting the use of four-wheel drive pickup trucks because, quote, the stronger the better. And encouraging attackers to pick up as much speed as possible while maintaining control and quote, Be able to strike as many people as possible in your first run. 
 
Analysts say it's their simplicity and subtlety that have made vehicles attractive weapons for terrorists.
 
PETER BERGEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST: You don't need any special preparation. Buying a gun might attract attention, certainly making bombs is something that might attract attention, might also suggest some degree of training, who knows.
 
TODD (voice-over): Following that December 6th bulletin and after the December 20th vehicle attack on a Christmas market in Germany that killed at least five people and injured more than 200, the Department of Homeland Security sent another warning to law enforcement reiterating that mass gatherings were potential targets and that vehicle ramming had been used in the U.S. as a tactic before. 
 
One of those bulletins referred to the attack on a Christmas parade in Waukesha, Wisconsin in November 2021 when a suspect driving an SUV killed six people and injured more than 60. Still, analyst Beth Sanner says there's only so much law enforcement can do to prevent vehicle attacks.
 
SANNER: You can do things around big events like blocking off entrances to the venues using, you know, dump trucks, other large vehicles but you can't close off everything and it is incredibly expensive to really shut down events. And you have things like parades where people are moving down streets.
 
TODD: Beth Sanner says none of this should discourage anyone from going to large outdoor gatherings but she says there are some things citizens can do to protect themselves at those events. Pay attention to where the barriers are and where there could be spaces where vehicles could get through. Don't stand near the edges of entryways and don't constantly look at your phone.
 
Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: Well authorities are working to learn more about the man behind this terrorist attack. However, we do know he had an ISIS flag in his truck during the ambush. Now U.S. President Joe Biden says investigators are looking at any relevant foreign involvement.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 <br>[04:35:00]
 
JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The attacker posted several videos just several hours before the attack indicating his strong support for ISIS. Federal law enforcement and the intelligence community are actively investigating any foreign or domestic contacts and connections that could possibly be relevant to the attack. As of now, no information, we have no information that anyone else is involved in the attack.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: Well here's Nic Robertson with more on the potential resurgence of the terrorist group.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): 2024 saw ISIS attack spike. This massive concert hall attack in Moscow killing more than a hundred people in March. Their deadliest, claimed by their most active franchise, ISIS-K or ISKP in Afghanistan.
 
A month later, this bloody attack inside a Russian jail. Four guards killed. 
 
A stabbing attack followed in Germany. They attacked in Afghanistan and Iran. Another of their estimated 10 franchises or provinces fought Nigerian troops.
 
AARON ZELIN, SENIOR FELLOW, WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY: We've seen a huge increase in tempo over the last year or two. In 2024, there were like 14 or 15 arrests related to the Islamic State in the U.S.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): It's a far cry from five years ago when ISIS appeared to be on the back foot. Their short-lived Iraq and Syrian caliphate beaten by US and coalition partners into a seeming surrender. But not anymore, according to MI5's intelligence chief.
 
KEN MCCALLUM, DIRECTOR GENERAL, MI5: After a few years of being pinned well back, they've resumed efforts to export terrorism. We and many European partners are detecting IS connectivity in our homelands which we're moving early to disrupt.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): Taylor Swift and her ERA's tour in Vienna, beneficiary of the heightened safeguarding. An ISIS-inspired plot forcing her to call off her show. What has changed, Zelin says, is that ISIS is centralizing, learning from its mistakes in Syria.
 
ZELIN: They integrated a lot of their provinces together under this general directorate of provinces, so there's a bit more coordination on the global level within its network.
 
ROBERTSON (voice-over): In the Mideast, the ISIS brand is apparently still attracting supporters, like these three Omanis in one of many such ISIS propaganda videos the terror group posts. 
 
Their bloody bounce-back began several years ago, gaining temporary global attention, killing 13 U.S. troops as coalition forces pulled out of Afghanistan in 2021. But since then, most of ISIS's recovery has not sparked massive global attention. 2025 might be the year that changes.
 
ZELIN: If they can do something in the U.S., if they can do something in Europe, if they can do something in Russia, Turkey, Iran, Central Asia, if they can do it, they'll do it. Because for them, it's a global war.
 
ROBERTSON: And success for ISIS in this context could be as simple as an attacker like Shamsud-Din Jabbar claiming, as he has, to have acted in ISIS's name when he may not have had any physical contact or support from them. 
 
Nic Robertson, CNN, London.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: Well, Donald, Trump has been doubling down on misinformation about the New Orleans attacker being an immigrant, which is absolutely untrue. On Thursday, the U.S. President-elect claimed that Biden's border policies allow radical Islamic terrorism and other forms of violent crime to flourish. And it's now worse than ever imagined.
 
Trump supporter Marjorie Taylor Greene tried to compare what happened in New Orleans to the ramming attack at a German Christmas market. 
 
The Congresswoman wrote: What did we expect would happen with wide- open borders and millions of gotaways? 
 
Again, the New Orleans attacker was a U.S. citizen.
 
Trump's initial claims followed an incorrect Fox News report that the truck used in the attack had recently crossed from Mexico into Texas. Fox later tried to walk back that false information. 
 
In Washington, Mike Johnson is fighting to keep his job as Speaker of the House. The Speaker's re-election vote will happen in just a few hours' time. Johnson is looking to avoid a drawn-out fight as Donald Trump throws his support behind him. Trump is even calling potential hold-outs, apparently.
 
Allies say Speaker Johnson is resisting cutting any backroom side deals to keep his position. Whether that stance changes remains to be seen. 
 <br>[04:40:00] 
 
Johnson can only afford to lose one Republican vote. It's a massive problem for the leader, as there is already one known GOP Congressman opposing him. Despite this, the Speaker appears confident and is insisting he will secure his gavel on the first round. 
 
Earlier, I spoke with Professor Natasha Lindstaedt and we discussed the likelihood of a chaotic Speaker vote, much like Mike Johnson's predecessor, Kevin McCarthy, who saw 15 rounds of voting.
 
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
 
NATASHA LINDSTAEDT, PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT, UNIVERSITY OF ESSEX: I think that that's what we can predict. The case with Kevin McCarthy, it was 15 rounds over four days and it really looked very chaotic. And then in the end, Kevin McCarthy had to make all kinds of concessions, the worst of which was that it would only take one person to call a vote to vacate the Speaker, which is what eventually led to his ouster 10 months later. And of course, eventually, Mike Johnson became the new House Speaker. 
 
From what I've heard, Johnson doesn't want to agree to any of these types of crazy stipulations because it just makes it too chaotic. So this could be a long drawn out process.
 
I still would expect, just because there isn't much of an alternative, possibly someone like Byron Donalds could be the House Speaker or Jim Jordan. But other than those two names, I haven't heard of anybody else. And with Trump's endorsement saying, I think he's the only one that's going to have the votes, they may have a long drawn out chaotic process, but they are probably going to end up with Mike Johnson as the next Speaker.
 
(END VIDEOTAPE)
 
MACFARLANE: President Joe Biden handed out Presidential Citizens Medals, one of the country's highest civilian honors, to 20 people on Thursday. Among them, Republican former representative Liv Cheney, vice chair of the House Committee that investigated the January 6th, 2021, attack on the Capitol. Cheney received a standing ovation for her work on the committee and her service to the country.
 
Mississippi representative Bennie Thompson, who led the January 6th Committee, was given a medal as well, and also received a standing ovation. 
 
Now two migrant boats sink off the coast of Tunisia. When we come back, why 2025 is already looking like a deadly year for migrants crossing the Mediterranean?
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[04:45:07] MACFARLANE: Dozens are dead after two migrant boats sink off Tunisia. According to state media, at least 27 people are dead in shipwrecks near the island chain off the coast -- off the Tunisian coast. The vessels were carrying Africans from sub-Saharan countries. Some 83 people were rescued. The Red Cross tells CNN there have been at least four shipwrecks in the area in the past week, claiming a total of 84 lives. 
 
Joining us here to discuss is Nada Bashir. Nada, I mean, this migration route between Africa and Europe continues to be extremely deadly.
 
NADA BASHIR, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, absolutely, and just the fact that we have seen four shipwrecks in just the last week is really quite staggering. We've heard, of course, from officials with regards to the situation last year, more than 2,000 people died attempting to make that crossing, and there have been efforts, of course, by a number of NGOs and humanitarian organizations to provide support, including search and rescue operations taking place oftentimes in the Mediterranean overnight in these harsher conditions that we're seeing over the winter months. 
 
But clearly we are still seeing people dying. And, of course, what we've also seen is not just these shipwrecks taking place off the coast of Tunisia, three of those were off the coast of Tunisia, one off the coast of Libya, another key crossing for many migrants, but also shipwrecks off the coast of the Italian island Lampedusa, which is a key destination point for many migrants.
 
And, of course, the fear is that as we continue to see European nations tightening their rules and regulations on immigration, many are choosing to take this dangerous route, of course, many escaping persecution and violence at home for fear of their own safety. And, of course, among these are hundreds of children, the Red Cross and UNICEF have all raised that alarm bell, hundreds of children, part of that figure of more than 2,000 who died last year.
 
MACFARLANE: I mean, it continues to be a conundrum for authorities, but as you say, I mean, the European Union is striking deals, they struck a deal with Tunisia in 2023 to try and prevent more boats making this crossing. Clearly, it's not really having an impact. So, what else can be done?
 
BASHIR: Yes, absolutely. I mean, there was a lot of controversy around that deal struck between the European Union and Tunisia, lots of funding going towards Tunisia for so-called border management. But what we've seen actually on the ground in Tunisia is official security forces pushing migrants actually to the Libyan border. They're essentially stranded there in harsh weather conditions, many of them dying as they stay stranded, they're waiting for support. 
 
And, of course, what you're also seeing in Libya and, of course, also in Tunisia is gangs really taking advantage of the situation and so placing migrants in these horrid detention centers with no real hope of when they might reach safety and, of course, that is a huge point of concern. But what we're also seeing in the European Union is this move towards these so-called processing centers, so third-country processing centers. Italy has already begun doing this, processing migrants now in Albania, essentially offshoring the issue, and that has been supported by a number of EU countries who have also strengthened their land border crossings. It's something that many European leaders want to see pushed through a new EU regulation. Certainly, France is a big backer of that. So there has been that movement towards pushing migrants to these third-country processing centers. That certainly was a key debate here with the Rwanda issue.
 
But again, that doesn't really solve the situation with migrants crossing the Mediterranean, making that dangerous crossing. Of course, inevitably, many of them losing their lives.
 
MACFARLANE: Yes, they're not doing this because they want to. They're doing this because they have to at the end of the day. It's creating an even worse situation for migrants now. Nada, thank you.
 
Now, a security camera in Southern California captured this frightening moment. A small plane crashing into a commercial building just about a minute after takeoff. Police say two people were killed and 19 were injured.
 
It happened in the city of Fullerton, south of Los Angeles. First responders worked to put out the fire and evacuate surrounding buildings. The warehouse that was hit was home to a furniture upholstery manufacturer.
 
College football fans were able to enjoy the postponed Sugar Bowl in New Orleans with increased security in the aftermath of the New Year's attack. That story just ahead.
 <br>[04:50:00] 
 
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 
MACFARLANE: Fans and players observed a moment of silence before Thursday's Sugar Bowl game to honor the victims of the New Orleans terror attack. The game in which Notre Dame beat the University of Georgia had been postponed a day following the New Year's attack. Those attending paused to consider what might have been and give thanks for the safety of their loved ones.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There's about close to a hundred of us that are down here, family of Riley, and so it was a check-in. Everybody check in. Everybody OK?
 
It was that kind of thing that happened at 7:30 on Wednesday morning, so it's sad, sad, sad. It's really sad.
 
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Me and my girls was actually on Bourbon Street walking until 10 o'clock that night and so grateful that he didn't decide to do this nine o'clock early in the day, so I'm really grateful and thankful. Grieving for the other families and the people that was with it, but I'm also grateful that my family back in Savannah, Georgia, didn't have to get that phone call.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: And ahead of the area's reopening on Thursday, musicians and religious leaders marched down Bourbon Street in a big easy effort to bring back a little joy after Wednesday's devastating attack brought the city to a standstill. 
 
Wayne Osmond, singer and guitarist for the family band the Osmonds, has died at the age of 73. His brother Merrill said that he suffered a massive stroke and died at Salt Lake City Hospital, according to the Associated Press.
 
The Osmonds enjoyed popular success in the 1970s and had a number of hits, including "One Bad Apple," sung by Donny Osmond. Wayne Osmond is survived by his eight siblings, his wife and five children. 
 
Now Hollywood is rolling out the red carpet as awards season gets underway this weekend with the Golden Globes, the annual ceremony in glitzy Beverly Hills, California, will honor the best in film and television from the past year, as chosen by more than 300 journalists from 85 countries.
 <br>[04:55:00]
 
Some of the top film nominees this year are the musical "Amelia Perez," the post-war 2 drama "The Brutalist," and "Wicked," the beloved prequel to The Wizard of Oz. 
 
Stand-up comedian Nikki Glaser says she's looking forward to celebrating Hollywood's best in her debut hosting gig.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
NIKKI GLASER, 2024 GOLDEN GLOBES HOST: Nerves will probably build up as we get closer, but right now I'm kind of, I'm feeling really good about the job that I have to do, the material I've written, that my team has written. I feel like we're just in good shape. I'm really excited just to like show these jokes to a massive audience, like that's, it's really like, I've been working on this art project that I'm like, I can't wait to show people.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: Well in the television categories, the top nominees include restaurant tale "The Bear," the mystery comedy "Only Murders in the Building," and the historical epic "Shogun." 
 
Now residents of a remote village in Kenya got quite a scare to the end of 2024. A huge red-hot object fell from the sky on Monday, prompting an immediate investigation from the Kenya Space Agency.
 
The metallic ring you can see here measures two and a half meters in diameter, about eight feet, and weighs about 500 kilograms or 1,100 pounds. The KSA says it's a fragment from a space object, probably a separation ring from a rocket.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
MAJOR ALOIS WERE, KENYA SPACE AGENCY: I mean the plate ring, I'll call it the plate ring that has fallen here, is just one in a million, because rarely will you see this coming down, because often they will burn before coming down to the Earth's surface.
 
(END VIDEO CLIP)
 
MACFARLANE: Well police say the ring was actually still hot when the officers arrived, and residents cordoned it off until -- in the area, until it had cooled down. Thank goodness it didn't land on anyone. 
 
Thanks very much for joining me here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Christina Macfarlane. Stay with us, CNN "THIS MORNING" is up after this quick break.