Headline: CNN News Central
Sub-headline: Officials Give Update on Deadly New Orleans Attack; Suspect Previously Served in U.S. Military; FBI: We do Not Believe Suspect Was The Only One Responsible For Attack. Aired 2-2:30p ET

Aired January 01, 2025 - 14:00 &nbsp; ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
 <br>[14:01:15]
 
BRIANNA KEILAR, CNN HOST: And we are following breaking news this hour. Any moment now, we expect an update from law enforcement in New Orleans after the deadly New Year's attack that is being investigated as an act of terrorism. Police say at least 10 people have died, dozens have been injured, many of them critically after a driver intentionally rammed a pickup truck into a crowd of revelers on the famous Bourbon Street.
 
The FBI has now identified the suspect as a man from Texas. Officials say he had an ISIS floor flag at the time and that several suspected explosive devices were found inside his vehicle. We also have some new video of police exchanging gunfire with the driver.
 
You see people fleeing the scene after they were trying to help people who had been injured. Authorities confirmed that they shot and killed the driver after they say he fired shots at officers, hitting and wounding two of them.
 
Let's start our coverage now with CNN's Omar Jimenez. He's live on the seen there in New Orleans and Omar as we are awaiting this news conference which is slated here for a couple minutes ago. Not unusual for there to be a delay from officials. Just bring us up to speed with what we know so far.
 
OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yeah, so at this point, we know a few things on a number of different fronts. So for starters, at least 10 have been killed, over 30 injured at least as far as we know so far to this point. That death toll hasn't changed too much from what we heard in the initial stages. But we could get a major update from some of these law enforcement sources and others when this press conference gets going here shortly.
 
Here at the scene itself, we are just outside the French Quarter. This van, this mobile communication center pulled in just a few minutes ago. So you can't quite see the entrance to Bourbon Street, which is what we have been looking at over the course of most of this afternoon. Where you've seen coroner vans coming in and out. We've seen, of course, investigators going in and out.
 
Seems to very much still be an active seeing right now as they try to piece together not just how this attack unfolded, but of course, get closer to that question of why. And that brings me to some of what you mentioned before. Coming to me for this report is what we are now learning from the FBI about the driver of this specific truck, that this was a person, a U.S. Citizen from Texas. Also, an ISIS flag found in the vehicle. Multiple explosives believed to be found or potentially identified, not just in the truck, but around as well.
 
So clearly they're still working through this scene and trying to figure out just what type of attack was planned. Obviously, the beginning aspects of it played out, but also where the plan originated on that front. So those are potentially some of the answers we may get from law enforcement coming up. But it is still an investigatory process.
 
But bottom line, with the people that have been killed, this happened in the opening hours of 2025. We were just talking to a shop owner who has a shop right in the corner about a block from us on Bourbon Street. He says it is typically crowded on a weekend night, for example, but on a New Year's Eve night, it was extra crowded.
 
Not to mention, you have a big football game going on -- that was supposed to be going on tonight. So you have an extra bit of crowd. They were closing up shop around 3 a.m. which is right around when this attack unfolded. And they said it was just as crowded as you would have thought it would have been around midnight. And so clearly people were still out, they were still celebrating in large force.
 
And when you look at some of the videos that we've seen, the horrific videos that have come out, there are still people clearly in the initial aftermath trying to process what just happened in front of them and likely moving forward, going to have to try and process with what happened in these initial moments of 2025, Brianna.
 <br>[14:05:03]
 
KEILAR: Yeah, certainly. And we're looking to get more information from this press conference. You see folks assembling for that there in New Orleans. It's shaping up to be quite an assortment of figures there from New Orleans and Louisiana. You can see Senator John Kennedy there in the background, it appears as well.
 
And you have law enforcement federally as well as state and local there. This appears imminent. So we're going to keep discussing also some important new information we're getting, but we're going to break away as soon as this begins and we will take that news conference live.
 
I want to bring in Evan Perez also with us to CNN's Tom Forman. Evan, what are you learning? 
 
EVAN PEREZ, CNN SENIOR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT: Well, one of the things we know right now is that the Pentagon is going to have to explain a little bit about this because we're told that this person, the suspect, Brianna, is a former member of the U.S. Military. We've asked, we reached out to the -- to the military, to the Pentagon for some more details about their service. But that is also adding to the complex picture of this -- of this suspect. We know that the fact that there was an ISIS flag obviously leads the FBI to believe that there was some kind of radicalization that happened. And so that's perhaps one of the questions that will be addressed here by the law enforcement that is there.
 
Obviously, the fact that there were multiple locations where there were additional explosives, who put them there? Was this person acting alone or did they put them there themselves? Or did they have additional help from someone who placed those explosives? What was the overall larger plan here? It's clear that the vehicle ramming of this crowd was not just one part of this plan.
 
This was a much larger attack based on what we are now learning from the FBI. This was something that -- obviously he was armed. Was -- he came out firing at police officers. And that's one of the -- some of the scene you heard there in that video that you played there, Brianna.
 
And obviously the idea that there are additional explosives -- 
 
KEILAR: Sorry, Evan. Let's listen in to this news conference there in New Orleans.
 
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
 
ALETHEA DUNCAN, FBI ASSISTANT SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE: Thank you for being here today and for your patience. First, I want to acknowledge the victims of today's horrific attack. The FBI and our partners are working diligently to investigate and find answers on behalf of the victims, the citizens and residents of Louisiana and everyone visiting the city.
 
I'm going to provide you some facts and information about what we do know. I know that all of you will have questions and we will try to provide some answers but this is an ongoing investigation that's rapidly evolving. So there are some questions I'll be unable to answer at this time.
 
The FBI is the lead investigative agency and we're investigating this as an attack of terrorism along with our partners. Today, at approximately 3:15 a.m. Central Standard Time, an individual drove a pickup truck into a crowd on Bourbon Street in New Orleans, killing at least 10 individuals and injuring dozens more.
 
After hitting the crowd, he exited the vehicle and fired upon local law enforcement. Law enforcement returned fire and the subject was pronounced deceased at the scene. Two law enforcement officers were injured and transported to local hospitals.
 
The subject has been identified as 42-year-old Shams-ud-Din Jabbar, a U.S. born citizen from Texas. He was driving a Ford pickup truck which appears to be rented. And we are working to confirm how the subject came in possession of this vehicle. An ISIS flag was located on the trailer hitch of the vehicle. And the FBI is working to determine the subject's potential associations and affiliations with terrorist organizations.
 
Weapons and potential improvised explosive devices IEDs were located in the subject's vehicle. Other potential IEDs were also located in the French Quarter. As of now, two IEDs have been found and rendered safe. The FBI, Special Agent Bomb technicians as well as our local law enforcement partners have been working to determine if any of these devices are viable and they will work to render those devices safe.
 
The FBI, we are working with our partners to investigate this as an act of terrorism. We're aggressively running down all the leads to identify the possible subject's associates. We're working to ensure that there is no further threat.
 
We do not believe that Jabbar was solely responsible. We are aggressively running down every lead, including those of his known associates. That's why we need the public's help. We are asking if anybody has any interactions with Shams-ud-Din Jabbar in the last 72 hours that you contact us.
 
The FBI is asking the public's help. We're asking anyone who has information, video or pictures to provide it to the FBI. We have set up a digital tip line as well as our 1-800-number. 1-800 call FBI. 
 <br>[14:10:03]
 
Please provide us with any information that can assist us in this in this investigation.
 
Once again, thank you for your patience and assistance. For an updated statement or information, please check the FBI's website and our social media accounts. I will now turn over to Mayor Cantrell. Thank you.
 
MAYOR LATOYA CANTRELL, (D) NEW ORLEANS: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Agent Duncan, for your leadership and the full support of the FBI. First and foremost, I want to express my deep, deepest condolences to the families and loved ones that were impacted by this tragedy on Bourbon Street and in the heart of the city of New Orleans. And I know that the entire New Orleans City Council agrees along right with me, no doubt about that. And our people and our families.
 
My priority will continue to be to ensure that victims that remain on Bourbon Street now will be serviced and removed as soon as possible. But as stated, the FBI is in charge of this investigation and are doing everything necessary to make this happen.
 
I also want to acknowledge hearing from President Biden, all of our federal partners, but most importantly, calling Governor Landry this morning responded with haste and we do say thank you. And of course, a demonstration of a unified support is right here in this room. That's how we collectively responded to this tragedy in the city of New Orleans.
 
The mission now is to facilitate support and coordinate safety procedures to keep our residents and our visitors safe. I've gone to the hospital along with Chief Kirkpatrick to visit our police officers. And considering their injuries, they're doing well.
 
As I mentioned, this investigation is ongoing and the FBI remains the lead in the investigation. It is an active crime scene as well. We are committed, no doubt, to uncovering all details surrounding this tragedy. And we are taking every necessary step to put even more safety procedures in place, especially given the nature of the investigation.
 
I'm going to ask people to do not go around our secured area if there is no essential need to do so. It matters. And again, it is an active crime scene. I also want you all to know that the Greater New Orleans foundation has set up a fund to assist victims and that information will be provided to you. Thank you, Ganath (ph).
 
Again, I want to thank this unified team. We're leaning in. We will be relentless and we will do everything that it takes to render real justice. This team will.
 
I want to also just thank our citizens for your heartfelt prayers. New Orleans is a world class city and I can say that I've heard from world leaders all this morning and up until now, in addition to my brother and sister mayors across this country, they're calling, they're responding and they're standing with the city of New Orleans.
 
And what they always say and want me to reiterate, they understand the resilience of this community and we're strong in that regard. And I will say second to none. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to our governor and as I mentioned, who has not wavered any in leaning in providing the necessary support and standing right here with me. And I say thank you, Governor. And I know the first lady is standing with us as well.
 
GOV. JEFF LANDRY, (R) LOUISIANA: Thank you, Madam Mayor. Thank you. Again, I want to thank the mayor. Since about 3:45 this morning when she called me, we have all been working just around the clock to both secure the city and to solve this act.
 
You know, again, I want to reiterate that our prayers go out with all of those who have been affected by this tragedy. 
 <br>[14:15:00]
 
I want to thank our law enforcement officers. I want to thank our medical personnel. I want to thank our first responders. And most importantly, I want to thank the two New Orleans police officers who not only laid their life on the line, but were able to eliminate the threat this morning.
 
Let me say we have made public safety a state priority from day one. And I think that if you look around me today, right now, and you look at the people who are standing around, that is their commitment as well. We intend to be transparent in assessing any defects that may have existed in the system so that we can address them. It's the only way to ensure that any mistakes that were made are corrected. Specifically, we have been trying and working very diligently to address security concerns in preparation for the Sugar Bowl since October. And it's interesting because, ironically, in preparation for the Sugar Bowl, I had intended to issue an emergency declaration tomorrow so that we could bring all of our federal, state and local agencies to bear in preparation for the Sugar Bowl and Mardi Gras.
 
But because of the events today, I have amended that emergency declaration and issued it today. So again, that declaration will allow our federal state and local partners to bring all of the resources necessary to get this city safe.
 
In light of that executive order, I have also ordered the mobilization of a military police company. I've asked General Friloux to mobilize a military police company to assist both New Orleans Police and LSP and the FBI. It is important for our citizens and guests of this state to know that we are doing everything we can to secure their safety in this city.
 
We want to make it clear the Superdome and the surrounding area is safe. But I've always said that the safety of this entire city is something that is always paramount to me. With that, I would like to turn it over to Jeff with the Sugar Bowl -- Jeff. Jeff Hundley.
 
JEFF HUNDLEY, CEO, SUGAR BOWL: Good afternoon. Obviously, we wish we weren't here for this reason today. The Sugar Bowl committee has a 90 year history of being a good corporate citizen for the city of New Orleans. And that's why this tragedy hurts us as much as anybody right now. So our condolences, thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and their families as we all work through this.
 
Of course, anytime we have a major event in the city of New Orleans, public safety is paramount. And we have full faith and confidence in the governor and the mayor and all the assets, the federal state and local resources that they've applied to this event so that we can ultimately bring those responsible to justice and carry on with the major events that we have in front of us.
 
Speaking of which, we were scheduled this evening to have a CFP quarterfinal played in the Superdome at 7:45. We have been in consultation with ESPN, with the College Football Playoff, with the Southeastern Conference, with the University of Georgia, with Notre Dame. All parties and all agree that it's in the best interest of everybody in public safety that we postpone the game for 24 hours.
 
Work is fast about to set up a safe and efficient and fun environment for tomorrow night. There'll be more details on that in the coming hours. But for now, that's the plan that we're going to move forward and play the game.
 
And again, we reiterate our thanks to everyone up here for the work, important work they're doing. We live in the fun and games world with what we do, but we certainly recognize the importance of this and we're going to support it 100%. So thank you.
 
LANDRY: I'd like to bring up Senator Kennedy. SEN. JOHN KENNEDY, (R) LOUISIANA: I wish -- I wish I understood better why bad things happen to good people. 
 <br>[14:20:03]
 
If I make it to heaven, I'm going to ask. For those people who don't believe in objective evil, all you have to do is look at what happened in our city early this morning. I am -- if this doesn't trigger the gag reflex of every American, every fair minded American, I'll be very surprised.
 
I'm here because these are my people. I'm here because these are my people's friends. I'm here because there are a lot of Louisianan's that are scared tonight. I don't want them to be. There's a lot of information going around. Some of it is actually true, some of it isn't. The federal government is now in charge of this investigation. By that I mean the White House, the FBI, the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice.
 
I have not talked to the FBI. Maybe they've talked to my staff, I don't know. I did talk to the Secretary of Homeland Security a little while ago and I told him that with all the respect I could muster that we expect to put the full force and resources of the federal government behind this investigation.
 
Our state troopers, our local police departments, our sheriffs, we've got many sheriffs here today, have been terrific so far. Federal government is cooperating with them. I hope that will continue.
 
Here's what I want to ask from the federal government. Catch these people. Catch these people. And then tell the American people the truth. Now, I don't want you to tell us yet anything that's going to interfere with your investigation. And there are things that I've been told that I think are true that I'm not sharing with you today because it could interfere with their investigation. But after we get to the bottom of this, they need to tell the American people the truth and the people of New Orleans the truth and the people of America the truth.
 
I think the Mayor and the Governor are very wise to postpone this ball game for 24 hours. There's just too much stuff we don't know and it's -- it's just not worth it.
 
But I guess my final point is I will promise you this. I will - when -- when it is appropriate and this investigation is complete, you will find out what happened and who was responsible. Or I will raise fresh hell. And I will chase those in the federal government who are responsible for telling us what happened. Like they stole Christmas.
 
LANDRY: Thank you, Senator Kennedy. Congressman Carter, I think -- 
 
REP. TROY CARTER, (D) LOUISIANA: Thank you, Governor. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Senator Kennedy. Thank you to all of our law enforcement agents for doing a yeoman's job. For stepping up at a time when we needed you most. For employing the resources of all of our partners. This is all hands on deck from the White House all the way down. I've been in communication with the White House since early this morning. Secretary Mayorkas, leaders in all of our federal local and state agencies, the President has made it very clear that he intends to bring every resource to bear to not only tell the truth, but to provide the resources to bring these cowards to justice.
 
I want to personally thank the men and women in uniform who put their lives on the line to protect our citizens and our visitors. To our Mayor and our Governor for acting expeditiously and bringing us all together. To our sheriffs from the surrounding areas who have been Johnny on the spot, recognizing that if it happens in New Orleans, it can happen anywhere.
 
We don't have the luxury of being myopic. In this community, we work together. We don't point fingers. We don't blame. We go after the bad guys.
 
Let it be clear that the full faith and credit of the United States and every agency therein is on the ground working. And for those who may have played a role in this horrific act of cowardice, we will find you. 
 <br>[14:25:01]
 
We will bring you to justice.
 
New Orleans is a place that heralds its ability to protect its citizens. That heralds its ability to protect its citizens. That heralds its ability to manage major events. Super Bowls, Sugar Bowls, Mardi Gras, Jazz Fest, Essence Festival, you name it. No one does it better than law enforcement in New Orleans and in the surrounding area.
 
Kudos to those two officers who have been wounded. Our hearts go out to those who lost loved ones. Our hearts go out to those who are wounded and on the mend in the hospital. 
 
Citizens, now is the time to stay calm, to be vigilant. This is not a time to come out to sightsee. Listen to your federal, local, state officials. Be vigilant. If you saw something, say something. If you know something, tell someone.
 
There are tip lines. There's information available. Please, all hands on deck. Rest assured that the decision that was made to postpone the game was not done lightly. It was done with one single thing in mind. Public safety.
 
Making sure that the citizens and visitors of this great city, not only for this event, but for every event you come to in Louisiana, that you will be safe. And we will use every resource possible. As the Governor has said, as the Mayor has said and every law enforcement agent here has said, our energy, our commitment will be to make sure that you are safe now and for every event in the future. God bless you. And let's stay strong.
 
LANDRY: Attorney General.
 
LIZ MURRILL, LOUISIANA ATTORNEY GENERAL: I first want to extend my sincerest condolences to the families of the victims. Parents got a phone call last night, this morning, early this morning that -- that no parent ever, ever wants to receive. And as a parent, a parent of children who come to New Orleans and spend time here, I know that that is just something that, you know, we cross, we hold our breath sometimes until they're home safe. And some people do not come home safe.
 
And we also have some people who are fighting for their lives right now in the hospital. So I'd ask everyone to pray for them. They need our support and they need our prayers.
 
This was a heinous act, a heinous, cowardly act. And we will find them and we will bring them to justice. My office will be providing both investigative and prosecutorial support to the City of New Orleans, to the District Attorney Jason Williams at New Orleans, as I have done for months. We will continue to do that.
 
We will provide the governor with whatever support that he needs. And the office of the Governor's Office of Homeland Security, whatever support that they need. I'll be here to help. I will be here to stand with the City of New Orleans. We will bring them to justice. Thank you. 
 
ANNE KIRKPATRICK, NEW ORLEANS POLICE SUPERINTENDENT: Thank you, Governor. Thank you, Governor and Madam Mayor, for those who do not know me, my name is Anne Kirkpatrick, I'm the Chief of Police of New Orleans. My title, official title, is superintendent, but my role is as chief of police.
 
You know, you've heard some of the details today, and over the last 24 hours, we had approximately 400 officers in the French Quarter. And as we know, this is not just an act of terrorism. This is evil. And when we face evil, we have a choice. We can run in fear, or we can indeed stand in strength.
 
In a time of crisis, people are looking for leadership. You are looking at the leadership. And I promise you, as the chief of police of this city. This city has been tried by fire before, but fire purifies. Fire makes things stronger. We have a plan. We know what to do. We are going to get these people. There is a path forward.
 
Very pleased that we will be back to having a wonderful game tomorrow night. New Orleans police have proven their ability to make the city safer. Just two years ago, we were the murder capital of America. Today, from that time to -- 
 
End